118th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 2226

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
     To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2024 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense for military construction, and 
   for defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
   military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Organization of Act into divisions; table of contents.
Sec. 3. Congressional defense committees.
Sec. 4. Budgetary effects of this Act.
            DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATIONS

                          TITLE I--PROCUREMENT

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.
                       Subtitle B--Army Programs

Sec. 111. Report on Army requirements and acquisition strategy for 
                            night vision devices.
Sec. 112. Army plan for ensuring sources of cannon tubes.
Sec. 113. Strategy for Army tactical wheeled vehicle program.
Sec. 114. Extension and modification of annual updates to master plans 
                            and investment strategies for Army 
                            ammunition plants.
Sec. 115. Report on acquisition strategies of the logistics 
                            augmentation program of the Army.
                       Subtitle C--Navy Programs

Sec. 121. Reduction in the minimum number of Navy carrier air wings and 
                            carrier air wing headquarters required to 
                            be maintained.
Sec. 122. Extension of prohibition on availability of funds for Navy 
                            port waterborne security barriers.
Sec. 123. Multiyear procurement authority for Virginia class submarine 
                            program.
Sec. 124. Sense of Senate on procurement of outstanding F/A-18 Super 
                            Hornet platforms.
                     Subtitle D--Air Force Programs

Sec. 131. Limitations and minimum inventory requirement relating to RQ-
                            4 aircraft.
Sec. 132. Limitation on divestiture of T-1A training aircraft.
Sec. 133. Modification to minimum inventory requirement for A-10 
                            aircraft.
Sec. 134. Modification to minimum requirement for total primary mission 
                            aircraft inventory of Air Force fighter 
                            aircraft.
Sec. 135. Modification of limitation on divestment of F-15 aircraft.
Sec. 136. Report on Air Force executive aircraft.
Sec. 137. Prohibition on certain reductions to inventory of E-3 
                            airborne warning and control system 
                            aircraft.
       Subtitle E--Defense-wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters

Sec. 141. Pilot program to accelerate the procurement and fielding of 
                            innovative technologies.
Sec. 142. Requirement to develop and implement policies to establish 
                            the datalink strategy of the Department of 
                            Defense.
Sec. 143. Report on contract for cybersecurity capabilities and 
                            briefing.
         TITLE II--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.
    Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 211. Updated guidance on planning for exportability features for 
                            future programs.
Sec. 212. Support to the Defence Innovation Accelerator for the North 
                            Atlantic.
Sec. 213. Modification to personnel management authority to attract 
                            experts in science and engineering.
Sec. 214. Administration of the Advanced Sensors Application Program.
Sec. 215. Delegation of responsibility for certain research programs.
Sec. 216. Program of standards and requirements for microelectronics.
Sec. 217. Clarifying role of partnership intermediaries to promote 
                            defense research and education.
Sec. 218. Competition for technology that detects and watermarks the 
                            use of generative artificial intelligence.
             Subtitle C--Plans, Reports, and Other Matters

Sec. 221. Department of Defense prize competitions for business systems 
                            modernization.
Sec. 222. Update to plans and strategies for artificial intelligence.
Sec. 223. Western regional range complex demonstration.
Sec. 224. Report on feasibility and advisability of establishing a 
                            quantum computing innovation center.
Sec. 225. Briefing on the impediments to the transition of the Semantic 
                            Forensics program to operational use.
Sec. 226. Annual report on Department of Defense hypersonic capability 
                            funding and investment.
Sec. 227. Limitation on availability of funds for travel for office of 
                            Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel 
                            and Readiness pending a plan for 
                            modernizing Defense Travel System.
Sec. 228. Annual report on unfunded priorities for research, 
                            development, test, and evaluation 
                            activities.
Sec. 229. Establishment of technology transition program for strategic 
                            nuclear deterrence.
Sec. 230. Review of artificial intelligence investment.
                  TITLE III--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 301. Authorization of appropriations.
                   Subtitle B--Energy and Environment

Sec. 311. Requirement for approval by Under Secretary of Defense for 
                            Acquisition and Sustainment of any waiver 
                            for a system that does not meet fuel 
                            efficiency key performance parameter.
Sec. 312. Improvement and codification of Sentinel Landscapes 
                            Partnership program authority.
Sec. 313. Modification of definition of sustainable aviation fuel for 
                            purpose of pilot program on use of such 
                            fuel.
Sec. 314. Payment to Environmental Protection Agency of stipulated 
                            penalties in connection with Naval Air 
                            Station Moffett Field, California.
Sec. 315. Technical assistance for communities and individuals 
                            potentially affected by releases at current 
                            and former Department of Defense 
                            facilities.
Subtitle C--Treatment of Perfluoroalkyl Substances and Polyfluoroalkyl 
                               Substances

Sec. 321. Treatment of certain materials contaminated with 
                            perfluoroalkyl substances or 
                            polyfluoroalkyl substances.
Sec. 322. Increase of transfer authority for funding of study and 
                            assessment on health implications of per- 
                            and polyfluoroalkyl substances 
                            contamination in drinking water by Agency 
                            for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry.
Sec. 323. Modification of authority for environmental restoration 
                            projects at National Guard facilities.
Sec. 324. Limitation on availability of travel funds until submittal of 
                            plan for restoring data sharing on testing 
                            of water for perfluoroalkyl or 
                            polyfluoroalkyl substances.
Sec. 325. Dashboard of funding relating to perfluoroalkyl substances 
                            and polyfluoroalkyl substances.
Sec. 326. Report on schedule and cost estimates for completion of 
                            testing and remediation of contaminated 
                            sites and publication of cleanup 
                            information.
Sec. 327. Modification of timing of report on activities of PFAS Task 
                            Force.
Sec. 328. Government Accountability Office report on testing and 
                            remediation of perfluoroalkyl substances 
                            and polyfluoroalkyl substances.
                 Subtitle D--Logistics and Sustainment

Sec. 331. Assuring Critical Infrastructure Support for Military 
                            Contingencies Pilot Program.
Sec. 332. Strategy and assessment on use of automation and artificial 
                            intelligence for shipyard optimization.
                   Subtitle E--Briefings and Reports

Sec. 341. Critical infrastructure conditions at military installations.
Sec. 342. Report on establishing sufficient stabling, pasture, and 
                            training area for the Old Guard Caisson 
                            Platoon equines.
Sec. 343. Quarterly briefings on operational status of amphibious 
                            warship fleet of Department of the Navy.
Sec. 344. Briefing on plan for maintaining proficiency in emergency 
                            movement of munitions in Joint Region 
                            Marianas, Guam.
                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 351. Continued designation of Secretary of the Navy as executive 
                            agent for Naval Small Craft Instruction and 
                            Technical Training School.
Sec. 352. Restriction on retirement of U-28 Aircraft.
Sec. 353. Tribal liaisons.
Sec. 354. Limitation on use of funds to expand leased facilities for 
                            the Joint Military Information Support 
                            Operations Web Operations Center.
Sec. 355. Modifications to the Contested Logistics Working Group of the 
                            Department of Defense.
Sec. 356. Establishment of Caisson Platoon to support military and 
                            State funeral services.
Sec. 357. Limitation on availability of funds pending 30-year 
                            shipbuilding plan that maintains 31 
                            amphibious warships for the Department of 
                            the Navy.
Sec. 358. Modification of rule of construction regarding provision of 
                            support and services to non-Department of 
                            Defense organizations and activities.
Sec. 359. Modifications to military aviation and installation assurance 
                            clearinghouse for review of mission 
                            obstructions.
              TITLE IV--MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS

                       Subtitle A--Active Forces

Sec. 401. End strengths for active forces.
Sec. 402. End strength level matters.
Sec. 403. Extension of additional authority to vary Space Force end 
                            strength.
                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

Sec. 411. End strengths for Selected Reserve.
Sec. 412. End strengths for Reserves on active duty in support of the 
                            Reserves.
Sec. 413. End strengths for military technicians (dual status).
Sec. 414. Maximum number of reserve personnel authorized to be on 
                            active duty for operational support.
              Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 421. Military personnel.
                   TITLE V--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

                  Subtitle A--Officer Personnel Policy

Sec. 501. Authorized strength: general and flag officers on active 
                            duty.
Sec. 502. Prohibition on appointment or nomination of certain officers 
                            who are subject to special selection review 
                            boards.
Sec. 503. Exclusion of officers who are licensed behavioral health 
                            providers from limitations on active duty 
                            commissioned officer end strengths.
Sec. 504. Updating authority to authorize promotion transfers between 
                            components of the same service or a 
                            different service.
Sec. 505. Effect of failure of selection for promotion.
Sec. 506. Permanent authority to order retired members to active duty 
                            in high-demand, low-density appointments.
Sec. 507. Waiver authority expansion for the extension of service 
                            obligation for Marine Corps cyberspace 
                            operations officers.
Sec. 508. Removal of active duty prohibition for members of the Air 
                            Force Reserve Policy Committee.
Sec. 509. Extension of authority to vary number of Space Force officers 
                            considered for promotion to major general.
Sec. 510. Realignment of Navy spot-promotion quotas.
Sec. 511. Modification of limitation on promotion selection board 
                            rates.
Sec. 512. Time in grade requirements.
Sec. 513. Flexibility in determining terms of appointment for certain 
                            senior officer positions.
                Subtitle B--Reserve Component Management

Sec. 521. Alternative promotion authority for reserve officers in 
                            designated competitive categories.
Sec. 522. Selected Reserve and Ready Reserve order to active duty to 
                            respond to a significant cyber incident.
Sec. 523. Mobilization of Selected Reserve for preplanned missions in 
                            support of the combatant commands.
Sec. 524. Alternating selection of officers of the National Guard and 
                            the Reserves as deputy commanders of 
                            certain combatant commands.
Sec. 525. Grade of Vice Chief of the National Guard Bureau.
      Subtitle C--General Service Authorities and Military Records

Sec. 531. Modification of limitation on enlistment and induction of 
                            persons whose score on the Armed Forces 
                            Qualification Test is below a prescribed 
                            level.
Sec. 532. Non-medical counseling services for military families.
Sec. 533. Primacy of needs of the service in determining individual 
                            duty assignments.
Sec. 534. Requirement to use qualifications, performance, and merit as 
                            basis for promotions, assignments, and 
                            other personnel actions.
Sec. 535. Requirement to base treatment in the military on merit and 
                            performance.
Sec. 536. Tiger team for outreach to former members.
Sec. 537. Diversity, equity, and inclusion personnel grade cap.
          Subtitle D--Military Justice and Other Legal Matters

Sec. 541. Establishment of staggered terms for members of the Military 
                            Justice Review Panel.
Sec. 542. Technical and conforming amendments to the Uniform Code of 
                            Military Justice.
Sec. 543. Annual report on initiative to enhance the capability of 
                            military criminal investigative 
                            organizations to prevent and combat child 
                            sexual exploitation.
           Subtitle E--Member Education, Training, Transition

Sec. 551. Future servicemember preparatory course.
Sec. 552. Determination of active duty service commitment for 
                            recipients of fellowships, grants, and 
                            scholarships.
Sec. 553. Military service academy professional sports pathway report 
                            and legislative proposal required.
Sec. 554. Community college Enlisted Training Corps demonstration 
                            program.
Sec. 555. Language training centers for members of the Armed Forces and 
                            civilian employees of the Department of 
                            Defense.
Sec. 556. Limitation on availability of funds for relocation of Army 
                            CID special agent training course.
Sec. 557. Army Physical Fitness Test.
Sec. 558. Opt-out sharing of information on members retiring or 
                            separating from the Armed Forces with 
                            community-based organizations and related 
                            entities.
Sec. 559. Establishment of program to promote participation of foreign 
                            students in the Senior Reserve Officers' 
                            Training Corps.
Sec. 560. Consideration of standardized test scores in military service 
                            academy application process.
Sec. 560A. Extension of Troops for Teachers program to the Job Corps.
    Subtitle F--Military Family Readiness and Dependents' Education

Sec. 561. Pilot program on recruitment and retention of employees for 
                            child development programs.
Sec. 562. Certain assistance to local educational agencies that benefit 
                            dependents of military and civilian 
                            personnel.
Sec. 563. Modifications to assistance to local educational agencies 
                            that benefit dependents of members of the 
                            Armed Forces with enrollment changes due to 
                            base closures, force structure changes, or 
                            force relocations.
Sec. 564. Assistance for military spouses to obtain doula 
                            certifications.
          Subtitle G--Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps

Sec. 571. Expansion of Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps.
Sec. 572. JROTC program certification.
Sec. 573. Memorandum of understanding required.
Sec. 574. Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps instructor 
                            compensation.
Sec. 575. Annual report on allegations of sexual misconduct in JROTC 
                            programs.
Sec. 576. Comptroller General report on efforts to increase 
                            transparency and reporting on sexual 
                            violence in the Junior Reserve Officers' 
                            Training Corps Program.
  Subtitle H--Decorations and Other Awards, Miscellaneous Reports and 
                             Other Matters

Sec. 581. Extension of deadline for review of World War I valor medals.
Sec. 582. Prohibition on former members of the Armed Forces accepting 
                            post-service employment with certain 
                            foreign governments.
Sec. 583. Prohibition on requiring listing of gender or pronouns in 
                            official correspondence.
                Subtitle I--Enhanced Recruiting Efforts

Sec. 591. Short title.
Sec. 592. Increased access to potential recruits at secondary schools.
Sec. 593. Increased access to potential recruits at institutions of 
                            higher education.
          TITLE VI--COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS

                     Subtitle A--Pay and Allowances

Sec. 601. Pay of members of reserve components for inactive-duty 
                            training to obtain or maintain an 
                            aeronautical rating or designation.
Sec. 602. Modification of calculation method for basic allowance for 
                            housing to more accurately assess housing 
                            costs of junior members of uniformed 
                            services.
Sec. 603. Basic allowance for housing for members assigned to vessels 
                            undergoing maintenance.
Sec. 604. Dual basic allowance for housing for training for certain 
                            members of reserve components.
Sec. 605. Modification of calculation of gross household income for 
                            basic needs allowance to address areas of 
                            demonstrated need.
Sec. 606. Expansion of eligibility for reimbursement of qualified 
                            licensure, certification, and business 
                            relocation costs incurred by military 
                            spouses.
Sec. 607. Cost-of-living allowance in the continental United States: 
                            high cost areas.
Sec. 608. OCONUS cost-of-living allowance: adjustments.
Sec. 609. Extension of one-time uniform allowance for officers who 
                            transfer to the Space Force.
Sec. 610. Review of rates of military basic pay.
Sec. 611. Government Accountability Office study on process for 
                            determining cost-of-living allowances for 
                            members of the uniformed services assigned 
                            to the continental United States, Hawaii, 
                            Alaska, and overseas locations.
                  Subtitle B--Bonus and Incentive Pays

Sec. 621. Modification of special and incentive pay authorities for 
                            members of reserve components.
Sec. 622. Expansion of continuation pay eligibility.
Sec. 623. One-year extension of certain expiring bonus and special pay 
                            authorities.
Sec. 624. Requirement to establish remote and austere condition 
                            assignment incentive pay program for Air 
                            Force.
Sec. 625. Extension of travel allowance for members of the Armed Forces 
                            assigned to Alaska.
                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

Sec. 631. Modification of requirements for approval of foreign 
                            employment by retired and reserve members 
                            of uniformed services.
Sec. 632. Restrictions on retired and reserve members of the Armed 
                            Forces receiving employment and 
                            compensation indirectly from foreign 
                            governments through private entities.
                   TITLE VII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

           Subtitle A--TRICARE and Other Health Care Benefits

Sec. 701. Extension of period of eligibility for health benefits under 
                            TRICARE Reserve Select for survivors of a 
                            member of the Selected Reserve.
Sec. 702. Authority to provide dental care for dependents located at 
                            certain remote or isolated locations.
Sec. 703. Inclusion of assisted reproductive technology and artificial 
                            insemination as required primary and 
                            preventive health care services for members 
                            of the uniformed services and dependents.
Sec. 704. Program on treatment of members of the Armed Forces for post-
                            traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain 
                            injuries, and co-occurring disorders 
                            related to military sexual trauma.
Sec. 705. Waiver of cost-sharing for three mental health outpatient 
                            visits for certain beneficiaries under the 
                            TRICARE program.
Sec. 706. Expansion of doula care furnished by Department of Defense.
Sec. 707. Sense of Congress on access to mental health services through 
                            TRICARE.
                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

Sec. 711. Increase in stipend for participants in health professions 
                            scholarship and financial assistance 
                            programs.
Sec. 712. Financial relief for civilians treated in military medical 
                            treatment facilities.
Sec. 713. Department of Defense Overdose Data Act of 2023.
Sec. 714. Modification of administration of medical malpractice claims 
                            by members of the uniformed services.
                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 721. Modification of partnership program between United States and 
                            Ukraine for military trauma care and 
                            research.
Sec. 722. Requirement that Department of Defense disclose expert 
                            reports with respect to medical malpractice 
                            claims by members of the uniformed 
                            services.
Sec. 723. Comptroller General study on impact of perinatal mental 
                            health conditions of members of the Armed 
                            Forces and their dependents on military 
                            readiness and retention.
Sec. 724. Report on mental and behavioral health services provided by 
                            Department of Defense.
Sec. 725. Report on activities of Department of Defense to prevent, 
                            intervene, and treat perinatal mental 
                            health conditions of members of the Armed 
                            Forces and their dependents.
Sec. 726. Study on family planning and cryopreservation of gametes to 
                            improve retention of members of the Armed 
                            Forces.
  TITLE VIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

             Subtitle A--Acquisition Policy and Management

Sec. 801. Amendments to multiyear procurement authority.
Sec. 802. Modernizing the Department of Defense requirements process.
Sec. 803. Head of Contracting Authority for Strategic Capabilities 
                            Office.
Sec. 804. Pilot program for the use of innovative intellectual property 
                            strategies.
Sec. 805. Focused commercial solutions openings opportunities.
Sec. 806. Study on reducing barriers to acquisition of commercial 
                            products and services.
Sec. 807. Sense of the Senate on independent cost assessment.
Sec. 808. Emergency acquisition authority for purposes of replenishing 
                            United States stockpiles.
Subtitle B--Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, 
                            and Limitations

Sec. 811. Commander initiated rapid contracting actions.
Sec. 812. Extension and revisions to never contract with the enemy.
Sec. 813. Enhancement of Department of Defense capabilities to prevent 
                            contractor fraud.
Sec. 814. Modification of approval authority for high dollar other 
                            transaction agreements for prototypes.
Sec. 815. Modifications to Earned Value Management system requirements.
Sec. 816. Inventory of inflation and escalation indices.
Sec. 817. Pilot program to incentivize progress payments.
Sec. 818. Extension of pilot program to accelerate contracting and 
                            pricing processes.
Sec. 819. Preventing conflicts of interest for Department of Defense 
                            consultants.
Sec. 820. Prohibition on requiring defense contractors to provide 
                            information relating to greenhouse gas 
                            emissions.
Sec. 821. Prohibition on contracts for the provision of online tutoring 
                            services by entities owned by the People's 
                            Republic of China.
Sec. 822. Modification of truthful cost or pricing data submissions and 
                            report.
Sec. 823. Repeal of bonafide office rule for 8(a) contracts with the 
                            Department of Defense.
                  Subtitle C--Industrial Base Matters

Sec. 831. Defense industrial base advanced capabilities pilot program.
Sec. 832. Department of Defense notification of certain transactions.
Sec. 833. Analyses of certain activities for action to address sourcing 
                            and industrial capacity.
Sec. 834. Pilot program on capital assistance to support defense 
                            investment in the industrial base.
Sec. 835. Requirement to buy certain satellite components from national 
                            technology and industrial base.
Sec. 836. Sense of Congress relating to rubber supply.
                   Subtitle D--Small Business Matters

Sec. 841. Amendments to Defense Research and Development Rapid 
                            Innovation Program.
Sec. 842. Department of Defense Mentor-Protege Program.
Sec. 843. Consideration of the past performance of affiliate companies 
                            of small businesses.
Sec. 844. Timely payments for Department of Defense small business 
                            subcontractors.
Sec. 845. Extension of Pilot Program for streamlined technology 
                            transition from the SBIR and STTR Programs 
                            of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 846. Annual reports regarding the SBIR program of the Department 
                            of Defense.
Sec. 847. Modifications to the Procurement Technical Assistance 
                            Program.
Sec. 848. Extension of pilot program to incentivize contracting with 
                            employee-owned businesses.
Sec. 849. Eliminating self-certification for service-disabled veteran-
                            owned small businesses.
Sec. 850. Payment of subcontractors.
Sec. 851. Increase in Governmentwide goal for participation in Federal 
                            contracts by small business concerns owned 
                            and controlled by service-disabled 
                            veterans.
Sec. 852. Amendments to contracting authority for certain small 
                            business concerns.
                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

Sec. 861. Limitation on the availability of funds pending a plan for 
                            implementing the replacement for the 
                            Selected Acquisition Reporting system.
Sec. 862. Extension of pilot program for distribution support and 
                            services for weapons systems contractors.
Sec. 863. Modification of effective date for expansion on the 
                            prohibition on acquiring certain metal 
                            products.
Sec. 864. Foreign sources of specialty metals.
Sec. 865. University Affiliated Research Center for critical minerals.
Sec. 866. Enhanced domestic content requirement for navy shipbuilding 
                            programs.
Sec. 867. Addition of Administrator of the Small Business 
                            Administration to the Federal Acquisition 
                            Regulatory Council.
Sec. 868. Modifications to rights in technical data.
      TITLE IX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

   Subtitle A--Office of the Secretary of Defense and Related Matters

Sec. 901. Establishment of Office of Strategic Capital.
Sec. 902. Reinstatement of position of Chief Management Officer of 
                            Department of Defense.
Sec. 903. Modification of responsibilities of Director of Cost 
                            Assessment and Program Evaluation.
Sec. 904. Roles and responsibilities for components of Office of 
                            Secretary of Defense for joint all-domain 
                            command and control in support of 
                            integrated joint warfighting.
Sec. 905. Principal Deputy Assistant Secretaries to support Assistant 
                            Secretary of Defense for Special Operations 
                            and Low Intensity Conflict.
Sec. 906. Modification of cross-functional team to address emerging 
                            threat relating to directed energy 
                            capabilities.
Sec. 907. Pilot program on protecting access to critical assets.
Sec. 908. Extension of mission management pilot program.
Sec. 909. Conforming amendments to carry out elimination of position of 
                            Chief Management Officer.
  Subtitle B--Other Department of Defense Organization and Management 
                                Matters

Sec. 921. Joint Energetics Transition Office.
Sec. 922. Transition of oversight responsibility for the Defense 
                            Technology Security Administration.
Sec. 923. Integrated and authenticated access to Department of Defense 
                            systems for certain congressional staff for 
                            oversight purposes.
Sec. 924. Integration of productivity software suites for scheduling 
                            data.
Sec. 925. Operationalizing audit readiness.
Sec. 926. Next generation business health metrics.
Sec. 927. Independent assessment of defense business enterprise 
                            architecture.
Sec. 928. Limitation on establishment of new diversity, equity, and 
                            inclusion positions; hiring freeze.
                      TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     Subtitle A--Financial Matters

Sec. 1001. General transfer authority.
Sec. 1002. Annual report on budget prioritization by Secretary of 
                            Defense and military departments.
Sec. 1003. Additional reporting requirements related to unfunded 
                            priorities.
Sec. 1004. Sense of the Senate on need for emergency supplemental 
                            appropriations.
                   Subtitle B--Counterdrug Activities

Sec. 1011. Disruption of fentanyl trafficking.
Sec. 1012. Enhanced support for counterdrug activities and activities 
                            to counter transnational organized crime.
Sec. 1013. Modification of support for counterdrug activities and 
                            activities to counter transnational 
                            organized crime: increase in cap for small 
                            scale construction projects.
Sec. 1014. Building the capacity of armed forces of Mexico to counter 
                            the threat posed by transnational criminal 
                            organizations.
                       Subtitle C--Naval Vessels

Sec. 1021. Modification of authority to purchase used vessels under the 
                            National Defense Sealift Fund.
Sec. 1022. Amphibious warship force availability.
Sec. 1023. Prohibition on retirement of certain naval vessels.
Sec. 1024. Report on the potential for an Army and Navy joint effort 
                            for watercraft vessels.
                      Subtitle D--Counterterrorism

Sec. 1031. Extension of prohibition on use of funds to close or 
                            relinquish control of United States Naval 
                            Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1032. Extension of prohibition on use of funds for transfer or 
                            release of individuals detained at United 
                            States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, 
                            to the United States.
Sec. 1033. Extension of prohibition on use of funds to construct or 
                            modify facilities in the United States to 
                            house detainees transferred from United 
                            States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1034. Extension of prohibition on use of funds for transfer or 
                            release of individuals detained at United 
                            States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, 
                            to certain countries.
         Subtitle E--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

Sec. 1041. Extension of admission to Guam or the Commonwealth of the 
                            Northern Mariana Islands for certain 
                            nonimmigrant H-2B workers.
Sec. 1042. Authority to include funding requests for the chemical and 
                            biological defense program in budget 
                            accounts of military departments.
Sec. 1043. Unfavorable security clearance eligibility determinations 
                            and appeals.
Sec. 1044. Assistance in support of Department of Defense accounting 
                            for missing United States Government 
                            personnel.
Sec. 1045. Implementation of arrangements to build transparency, 
                            confidence, and security.
Sec. 1046. Access to and use of military post offices by United States 
                            citizens employed overseas by the North 
                            Atlantic Treaty Organization who perform 
                            functions in support of military operations 
                            of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 1047. Removal of time limitations of temporary protection and 
                            authorization of reimbursement for security 
                            services and equipment for former or 
                            retired Department of Defense personnel.
Sec. 1048. Annual Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency (DPAA) capabilities 
                            required to expand accounting for persons 
                            missing from designated past conflicts.
Sec. 1049. Access to commissary and exchange privileges for remarried 
                            spouses.
                    Subtitle F--Studies and Reports

Sec. 1051. Annual report and briefing on implementation of Force Design 
                            2030.
Sec. 1052. Plan for conversion of Joint Task Force North into Joint 
                            Interagency Task Force North.
Sec. 1053. Report on use of tactical fighter aircraft and bomber 
                            aircraft for deployments and homeland 
                            defense missions.
Sec. 1054. Modifications of reporting requirements.
Sec. 1055. Report on equipping certain ground combat units with small 
                            unmanned aerial systems.
Sec. 1056. Comprehensive assessment of Marine Corps Force Design 2030.
Sec. 1057. Strategy to achieve critical mineral supply chain 
                            independence for the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1058. Quarterly briefing on homeland defense planning.
Sec. 1059. Special operations force structure.
Sec. 1060. Briefing on commercial tools employed by the Department of 
                            Defense to assess foreign ownership, 
                            control, or influence.
Sec. 1061. Plan on countering human trafficking.
Sec. 1062. Briefing and report on use and effectiveness of United 
                            States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1063. Ensuring reliable supply of critical minerals.
                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 1071. Matters related to irregular warfare.
Sec. 1072. Joint concept for competing implementation updates.
Sec. 1073. Limitation on certain funding until submission of the 
                            Chairman's Risk Assessment and briefing 
                            requirement.
Sec. 1074. Notification of safety and security concerns at certain 
                            Department of Defense laboratories.
Sec. 1075. Assessment and recommendations relating to infrastructure, 
                            capacity, resources, and personnel in Guam.
Sec. 1076. Program and processes relating to foreign acquisition.
Sec. 1077. Technical and conforming amendments related to the Space 
                            Force.
Sec. 1078. Authority to establish commercial integration cells within 
                            certain combatant commands.
Sec. 1079. Modification on limitation on funding for institutions of 
                            higher education hosting Confucius 
                            Institutes.
Sec. 1080. Modification of definition of domestic source for title III 
                            of Defense Production Act of 1950.
Sec. 1081. Comprehensive strategy for talent development and management 
                            of Department of Defense computer 
                            programming workforce.
Sec. 1082. Limitation on availability of funds for destruction of 
                            landmines.
Sec. 1083. Nogales wastewater improvement.
Sec. 1084. Authorization of amounts to support initiatives for mobile 
                            mammography services for veterans.
Sec. 1085. Protection of covered sectors.
Sec. 1086. Review of agriculture-related transactions by Committee on 
                            Foreign Investment in the United States.
Sec. 1087. 9/11 Responder and Survivor Health Funding Correction Act of 
                            2023.
Sec. 1088. Reauthorization of voluntary registry for firefighter cancer 
                            incidence.
Sec. 1089. Requirement for unqualified opinion on financial statement.
Sec. 1090. Briefing on Air National Guard active associations.
Sec. 1090A. Informing Consumers about Smart Devices Act.
Sec. 1090B. Improving processing by Department of Veterans Affairs of 
                            disability claims for post-traumatic stress 
                            disorder through improved training.
Sec. 1090C. U.S. Hostage and Wrongful Detainee Day Act of 2023.
Sec. 1090D. Prohibition on provision of airport improvement grant funds 
                            to certain entities that have violated 
                            intellectual property rights of United 
                            States entities.
Sec. 1090E. Conduct of winter season reconnaissance of atmospheric 
                            rivers in the western United States.
Sec. 1090F. National Cold War Center designation.
Sec. 1090G. Semiconductor program.
Sec. 1090H. Prohibition of demand for bribe.
Sec. 1090I. Studies and reports on treatment of service of certain 
                            members of the Armed Forces who served in 
                            female cultural support teams.
Sec. 1090J. Global cooperative framework to end human rights abuses in 
                            sourcing critical minerals.
Sec. 1090K. Readmission requirements for servicemembers.
                       Subtitle H--Drone Security

Sec. 1091. Short title.
Sec. 1092. Definitions.
Sec. 1093. Prohibition on procurement of covered unmanned aircraft 
                            systems from covered foreign entities.
Sec. 1094. Prohibition on operation of covered unmanned aircraft 
                            systems from covered foreign entities.
Sec. 1095. Prohibition on use of Federal funds for procurement and 
                            operation of covered unmanned aircraft 
                            systems from covered foreign entities.
Sec. 1096. Prohibition on use of Government-issued Purchase Cards to 
                            purchase covered unmanned aircraft systems 
                            from covered foreign entities.
Sec. 1097. Management of existing inventories of covered unmanned 
                            aircraft systems from covered foreign 
                            entities.
Sec. 1098. Comptroller General report.
Sec. 1099. Government-wide policy for procurement of unmanned aircraft 
                            systems.
Sec. 1099A. State, local, and territorial law enforcement and emergency 
                            service exemption.
Sec. 1099B. Study.
Sec. 1099C. Exceptions.
Sec. 1099D. Sunset.
            Subtitle I--Radiation Exposure Compensation Act

                    PART I--Manhattan Project Waste

Sec. 1099AA. Claims relating to Manhattan Project waste.
      PART II--Compensation for Workers Involved in Uranium Mining

Sec. 1099BB. Short title.
Sec. 1099CC. References.
Sec. 1099DD. Extension of fund.
Sec. 1099EE. Claims relating to atmospheric testing.
Sec. 1099FF. Claims relating to uranium mining.
Sec. 1099GG. Expansion of use of affidavits in determination of claims; 
                            regulations.
Sec. 1099HH. Limitation on claims.
Sec. 1099II. Grant program on epidemiological impacts of uranium mining 
                            and milling.
Sec. 1099JJ. Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation 
                            Program.
                       Subtitle J--Crypto Assets

Sec. 1099AAA. Crypto asset anti-money laundering examination standards.
Sec. 1099BBB. Combating anonymous crypto asset transactions.
       Subtitle K--Combating Cartels on Social Media Act of 2023

Sec. 1099AAAA. Short title.
Sec. 1099BBBB. Definitions.
Sec. 1099CCCC. Assessment of illicit usage.
Sec. 1099DDDD. Strategy to combat cartel recruitment on social media 
                            and online platforms.
Sec. 1099EEEE. Rule of construction.
Sec. 1099FFFF. No additional funds.
  TITLE XI--CONNECTING OCEANIA'S NATIONS WITH VANGUARD EXERCISES AND 
                          NATIONAL EMPOWERMENT

Sec. 1101. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 1102. Definitions.
Sec. 1103. National security councils of specified countries.
                 TITLE XII--CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS

Sec. 1201. One-year extension of authority to waive annual limitation 
                            on premium pay and aggregate limitation on 
                            pay for Federal civilian employees working 
                            overseas.
Sec. 1202. One-year extension of temporary authority to grant 
                            allowances, benefits, and gratuities to 
                            civilian personnel on official duty in a 
                            combat zone.
Sec. 1203. Exclusion of positions in nonappropriated fund 
                            instrumentalities from limitations on dual 
                            pay.
Sec. 1204. Exception to limitation on number of Senior Executive 
                            Service positions for the Department of 
                            Defense.
Sec. 1205. Removal of Washington Headquarters Services direct support 
                            from personnel limitation on the Office of 
                            the Secretary of Defense.
Sec. 1206. Consolidation of direct hire authorities for candidates with 
                            specified degrees at science and technology 
                            reinvention laboratories.
Sec. 1207. Expansion and extension of direct hire authority for certain 
                            personnel of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1208. Extension of direct hire authority for the Department of 
                            Defense for post-secondary students and 
                            recent graduates.
Sec. 1209. Extension of direct hire authority for domestic industrial 
                            base facilities and Major Range and Test 
                            Facilities Base.
Sec. 1210. Authority to employ civilian faculty members at Space Force 
                            schools.
Sec. 1211. Report and sunset relating to inapplicability of 
                            certification of executive qualifications 
                            by qualification review boards of Office of 
                            Personnel Management.
Sec. 1212. Extension of date of first employment for acquisition of 
                            competitive status for employees of 
                            Inspectors General for overseas contingency 
                            operations.
Sec. 1213. Expansion of noncompetitive appointment eligibility to 
                            spouses of Department of Defense civilians.
Sec. 1214. Elimination of Government Accountability Office review 
                            requirement relating to Department of 
                            Defense personnel authorities.
Sec. 1215. Amendments to the John S. McCain Strategic Defense Fellows 
                            Program.
Sec. 1216. Civilian Cybersecurity Reserve pilot project.
            TITLE XIII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

                  Subtitle A--Assistance and Training

Sec. 1301. Middle East integrated maritime domain awareness and 
                            interdiction capability.
Sec. 1302. Authority to provide mission training through distributed 
                            simulation.
Sec. 1303. Increase in small-scale construction limit and modification 
                            of authority to build capacity.
Sec. 1304. Extension of legal institutional capacity building 
                            initiative for foreign defense 
                            institutions.
Sec. 1305. Extension and modification of authority for reimbursement of 
                            certain coalition nations for support 
                            provided to United States military 
                            operations.
Sec. 1306. Extension of authority for Department of Defense support for 
                            stabilization activities in national 
                            security interest of the United States.
Sec. 1307. Extension of cross servicing agreements for loan of 
                            personnel protection and personnel 
                            survivability equipment in coalition 
                            operations.
Sec. 1308. Limitation on availability of funds for International 
                            Security Cooperation Program.
Sec. 1309. Modification of Department of Defense security cooperation 
                            workforce development.
Sec. 1310. Modification of authority to provide support to certain 
                            governments for border security operations.
Sec. 1311. Modification of Defense Operational Resilience International 
                            Cooperation Pilot Program.
Sec. 1312. Assistance to Israel for aerial refueling.
Sec. 1313. Report on coordination with private entities and State 
                            governments with respect to the State 
                            Partnership Program.
         Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Syria, Iraq, and Iran

Sec. 1321. Extension and modification of authority to provide 
                            assistance to vetted Syrian groups and 
                            individuals.
Sec. 1322. Extension of authority to support operations and activities 
                            of the Office of Security Cooperation in 
                            Iraq.
Sec. 1323. Extension and modification of authority to provide 
                            assistance to counter the Islamic State of 
                            Iraq and Syria.
Sec. 1324. Briefing on nuclear capability of Iran.
Sec. 1325. Modification of establishment of coordinator for detained 
                            ISIS members and relevant populations in 
                            Syria.
   Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Europe and the Russian Federation

Sec. 1331. Extension and modification of Ukraine Security Assistance 
                            Initiative.
Sec. 1332. Extension and modification of training for Eastern European 
                            national security forces in the course of 
                            multilateral exercises.
Sec. 1333. Extension of prohibition on availability of funds relating 
                            to sovereignty of the Russian Federation 
                            over internationally recognized territory 
                            of Ukraine.
Sec. 1334. Extension and modification of temporary authorizations 
                            related to Ukraine and other matters.
Sec. 1335. Prioritization for basing, training, and exercises in North 
                            Atlantic Treaty Organization member 
                            countries.
Sec. 1336. Study and report on lessons learned regarding information 
                            operations and deterrence.
Sec. 1337. Report on progress on multi-year strategy and plan for the 
                            Baltic Security Initiative.
Sec. 1338. Sense of the Senate on the North Atlantic Treaty 
                            Organization.
Sec. 1339. Sense of the Senate on Defence Innovation Accelerator for 
                            the North Atlantic (DIANA) in the North 
                            Atlantic Treaty Organization.
Sec. 1340. Sense of the Senate regarding the arming of Ukraine.
        Subtitle D--Matters Relating to the Indo-Pacific Region

Sec. 1341. Indo-Pacific Campaigning Initiative.
Sec. 1342. Training, advising, and institutional capacity-building 
                            program for military forces of Taiwan.
Sec. 1343. Indo-Pacific Maritime Domain Awareness Initiative.
Sec. 1344. Extension of Pacific Deterrence Initiative.
Sec. 1345. Extension of authority to transfer funds for Bien Hoa dioxin 
                            cleanup.
Sec. 1346. Extension and modification of pilot program to improve cyber 
                            cooperation with foreign military partners 
                            in Southeast Asia.
Sec. 1347. Extension and modification of certain temporary 
                            authorizations.
Sec. 1348. Plan for enhanced security cooperation with Japan.
Sec. 1349. Plan for improvements to certain operating locations in 
                            Indo-Pacific region.
Sec. 1350. Strategy for improving posture of ground-based theater-range 
                            missiles in Indo-Pacific region.
Sec. 1351. Enhancing major defense partnership with India.
Sec. 1352. Military cybersecurity cooperation with Taiwan.
Sec. 1353. Designation of senior official for Department of Defense 
                            activities relating to, and implementation 
                            plan for, security partnership among 
                            Australia, the United Kingdom, and the 
                            United States.
Sec. 1354. Report and notification relating to transfer of operational 
                            control on Korean Peninsula.
Sec. 1355. Report on range of consequences of war with the People's 
                            Republic of China.
Sec. 1356. Study and report on command structure and force posture of 
                            United States Armed Forces in Indo-Pacific 
                            region.
Sec. 1357. Studies on defense budget transparency of the People's 
                            Republic of China and the United States.
Sec. 1358. Briefing on provision of security assistance by the People's 
                            Republic of China and summary of Department 
                            of Defense mitigation activities.
Sec. 1359. Semiannual briefings on bilateral agreements supporting 
                            United States military posture in the Indo-
                            Pacific region.
Sec. 1360. Semiannual briefings on military of the People's Republic of 
                            China.
Sec. 1361. Prohibition on use of funds to support entertainment 
                            projects with ties to the Government of the 
                            People's Republic of China.
Sec. 1362. Prohibition on use of funds for the Wuhan Institute of 
                            Virology.
Sec. 1363. Audit to identify diversion of Department of Defense funding 
                            to China's research labs.
Sec. 1364. Prohibiting Federal funding for EcoHealth Alliance Inc.
Sec. 1365. Assessment relating to contingency operational plan of 
                            United States Indo-Pacific Command.
Sec. 1366. Assessment of absorptive capacity of military forces of 
                            Taiwan.
Sec. 1367. Analysis of risks and implications of potential sustained 
                            military blockade of Taiwan by the People's 
                            Republic of China.
Sec. 1368. Sense of the Senate on defense alliances and partnerships in 
                            the Indo-Pacific region.
Sec. 1369. Assessment of gifts and grants to United States institutions 
                            of higher education from entities on the 
                            Non-SDN Chinese Military-Industrial Complex 
                            Companies List.
Sec. 1370. Extension of export prohibition on munitions items to the 
                            Hong Kong Police Force.
             Subtitle E--Securing Maritime Data From China

Sec. 1371. Short title.
Sec. 1372. LOGINK defined.
Sec. 1373. Countering the spread of LOGINK.
                          Subtitle F--Reports

Sec. 1381. Report on Department of Defense roles and responsibilities 
                            in support of National Strategy for the 
                            Arctic Region.
                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 1391. Military intelligence collection and analysis partnerships.
Sec. 1392. Collaboration with partner countries to develop and maintain 
                            military-wide transformational strategies 
                            for operational energy.
Sec. 1393. Modification of support of special operations for irregular 
                            warfare.
Sec. 1394. Modification of authority for expenditure of funds for 
                            clandestine activities that support 
                            operational preparation of the environment.
Sec. 1395. Modification of initiative to support protection of national 
                            security academic researchers from undue 
                            influence and other security threats.
Sec. 1396. Modification of authority for certain payments to redress 
                            injury and loss.
Sec. 1397. Modification of authority for cooperation on directed energy 
                            capabilities.
Sec. 1398. Modification of Arctic Security Initiative.
Sec. 1399. Termination of authorization of non-conventional assisted 
                            recovery capabilities.
Sec. 1399A. Extension of prohibition on in-flight refueling to non-
                            United States aircraft that engage in 
                            hostilities in the ongoing civil war in 
                            Yemen.
Sec. 1399B. Extension of United States-Israel anti-tunnel cooperation.
Sec. 1399C. Prohibition on delegation of authority to designate foreign 
                            partner forces as eligible for the 
                            provision of collective self-defense 
                            support by United States Armed Forces.
Sec. 1399D. Participation by military departments in interoperability 
                            programs with military forces of Australia, 
                            Canada, New Zealand, and the United 
                            Kingdom.
Sec. 1399E. Cooperation with allies and partners in Middle East on 
                            development of integrated regional 
                            cybersecurity architecture.
Sec. 1399F. Foreign Advance Acquisition Account.
Sec. 1399G. Limitation on availability of funds for travel expenses of 
                            the Office of the Secretary of Defense.
Sec. 1399H. Plans related to rapid transfer of certain missiles and 
                            defense capabilities.
Sec. 1399I. Ensuring peace through strength in Israel.
Sec. 1399J. Improvements to security cooperation workforce and defense 
                            acquisition workforce.
Sec. 1399K. Modification of foreign military sales processing.
Sec. 1399L. Ending China's developing nation status.
Sec. 1399M. Sharing of information with respect to suspected violations 
                            of intellectual property rights.
Sec. 1399N. Foreign port security assessments.
Sec. 1399O. Legal preparedness for servicemembers abroad.
             Subtitle H--Limitation on Withdrawal From NATO

Sec. 1399AA. Opposition of Congress to suspension, termination, 
                            denunciation, or withdrawal from North 
                            Atlantic Treaty.
Sec. 1399BB. Limitation on the use of funds.
Sec. 1399CC. Notification of treaty action.
Sec. 1399DD. Authorization of Legal Counsel to represent Congress.
Sec. 1399EE. Reporting requirement.
Sec. 1399FF. Rule of construction.
Sec. 1399GG. Severability.
Sec. 1399HH. Definitions.
                Subtitle I--Combating Global Corruption

Sec. 1399AAA. Short title.
Sec. 1399BBB. Definitions.
Sec. 1399CCC. Publication of tiered ranking list.
Sec. 1399DDD. Minimum standards for the elimination of corruption and 
                            assessment of efforts to combat corruption.
Sec. 1399EEE. Imposition of sanctions under Global Magnitsky Human 
                            Rights Accountability Act.
Sec. 1399FFF. Designation of embassy anti-corruption points of contact.
    Subtitle J--International Children With Disabilities Protection

Sec. 1399AAAA. Short title.
Sec. 1399BBBB. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 1399CCCC. Definitions.
Sec. 1399DDDD. Statement of policy.
Sec. 1399EEEE. International Children with Disabilities Protection 
                            Program and capacity building.
Sec. 1399FFFF. Annual report on implementation.
Sec. 1399GGGG. Promoting international protection and advocacy for 
                            children with disabilities.
         Subtitle K--Western Hemisphere Partnership Act of 2023

Sec. 1399AAAAA. Short title.
Sec. 1399BBBBB. United States policy in the Western Hemisphere.
Sec. 1399CCCCC. Promoting security and the rule of law in the Western 
                            Hemisphere.
Sec. 1399DDDDD. Promoting digitalization and cybersecurity in the 
                            Western Hemisphere.
Sec. 1399EEEEE. Promoting economic and commercial partnerships in the 
                            Western Hemisphere.
Sec. 1399FFFFF. Promoting transparency and democratic governance in the 
                            Western Hemisphere.
Sec. 1399GGGGG. Investment, trade, and development in Africa and Latin 
                            America and the Caribbean.
Sec. 1399HHHHH. Sense of Congress on prioritizing nomination and 
                            confirmation of qualified ambassadors.
Sec. 1399IIIII. Western Hemisphere defined.
Sec. 1399JJJJJ. Report on efforts to capture and detain united states 
                            citizens as hostages.
                TITLE XIV--COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION

Sec. 1401. Cooperative Threat Reduction funds.
                     TITLE XV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

                     Subtitle A--Military Programs

Sec. 1501. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1502. Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense.
Sec. 1503. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1504. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1505. Defense Health Program.
                 Subtitle B--National Defense Stockpile

Sec. 1511. Recovery of rare earth elements and other strategic and 
                            critical materials through end-of-life 
                            equipment recycling.
Sec. 1512. Improvements to Strategic and Critical Materials Stock 
                            Piling Act.
Sec. 1513. Authority to dispose of materials from the National Defense 
                            Stockpile.
Sec. 1514. Beginning balances of the National Defense Stockpile 
                            Transaction Fund for audit purposes.
                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

Sec. 1521. Authority for transfer of funds to joint Department of 
                            Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs 
                            Medical Facility Demonstration Fund for 
                            Captain James A. Lovell Health Care Center, 
                            Illinois.
Sec. 1522. Authorization of appropriations for Armed Forces Retirement 
                            Home.
Sec. 1523. Modification of leasing authority of Armed Forces Retirement 
                            Home.
   TITLE XVI--SPACE ACTIVITIES, STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, AND INTELLIGENCE 
                                MATTERS

                      Subtitle A--Space Activities

Sec. 1601. Acquisition strategy for Phase 3 of the National Security 
                            Space Launch program.
Sec. 1602. Initial operating capability for Advanced Tracking and 
                            Launch Analysis System and system-level 
                            review.
Sec. 1603. Department of the Air Force responsibility for space-based 
                            ground and airborne moving target 
                            indication.
Sec. 1604. Principal Military Deputy for Space Acquisition and 
                            Integration.
Sec. 1605. Use of middle tier acquisition authority for Space 
                            Development Agency acquisition program.
Sec. 1606. Special authority for provision of commercial space launch 
                            support services.
Sec. 1607. Treatment of Positioning, Navigation, and Timing Resiliency, 
                            Modifications, and Improvements program as 
                            acquisition category 1D program.
Sec. 1608. Briefing on classification practices and foreign disclosure 
                            policies required for combined space 
                            operations.
Sec. 1609. Limitation on availability of certain funds relating to 
                            selection of permanent location for 
                            headquarters of United States Space 
                            Command.
                       Subtitle B--Nuclear Forces

Sec. 1611. Prohibition on reduction of the intercontinental ballistic 
                            missiles of the United States.
Sec. 1612. Sentinel intercontinental ballistic missile program silo 
                            activity.
Sec. 1613. Matters relating to the acquisition and deployment of the 
                            Sentinel intercontinental ballistic missile 
                            weapon system.
Sec. 1614. Plan for decreasing the time to upload additional warheads 
                            to the intercontinental ballistic missile 
                            fleet.
Sec. 1615. Tasking and oversight authority with respect to 
                            intercontinental ballistic missile site 
                            activation task force for Sentinel Program.
Sec. 1616. Long-term sustainment of Sentinel ICBM guidance system.
Sec. 1617. Sense of Senate on Polaris Sales Agreement.
Sec. 1618. Matters relating to the nuclear-armed sea-launched cruise 
                            missile.
Sec. 1619. Operational timeline for Strategic Automated Command and 
                            Control System.
Sec. 1620. Amendment to annual report on the plan for the nuclear 
                            weapons stockpile, nuclear weapons complex, 
                            nuclear weapons delivery systems, and 
                            nuclear weapons command and control 
                            systems.
Sec. 1621. Technical amendment to additional report matters on 
                            strategic delivery systems.
Sec. 1622. Amendment to study of weapons programs that allow Armed 
                            Forces to address hard and deeply buried 
                            targets.
Sec. 1623. Limitation on use of funds until provision of Department of 
                            Defense information to Government 
                            Accountability Office.
Sec. 1624. Monitoring Iranian enrichment.
                      Subtitle C--Missile Defense

Sec. 1631. Designation of official responsible for missile defense of 
                            Guam.
Sec. 1632. Selection of a Director of the Missile Defense Agency.
Sec. 1633. Modification of requirement for Comptroller General of the 
                            United States review and assessment of 
                            missile defense acquisition programs.
Sec. 1634. Iron Dome short-range rocket defense system and Israeli 
                            cooperative missile defense program co-
                            development and co-production.
Sec. 1635. Modification of scope of program accountability matrices 
                            requirements for next generation 
                            interceptors for missile defense of the 
                            United States homeland.
Sec. 1636. Limitation on availability of funds for Office of Cost 
                            Assessment and Program Evaluation until 
                            submission of missile defense roles and 
                            responsibilities report.
Sec. 1637. Integrated air and missile defense architecture for the 
                            Indo-Pacific region.
Sec. 1638. Modification of National Missile Defense policy.
                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 1641. Electronic warfare.
Sec. 1642. Study on the future of the Integrated Tactical Warning 
                            Attack Assessment System.
Sec. 1643. Comprehensive review of electronic warfare test ranges and 
                            future capabilities.
Sec. 1644. Extension of authorization for protection of certain 
                            facilities and assets from unmanned 
                            aircraft.
Sec. 1645. Addressing serious deficiencies in electronic protection of 
                            systems that operate in the radio frequency 
                            spectrum.
Sec. 1646. Funding limitation on certain unreported programs.
Sec. 1647. Revision of Secretary of Defense authority to engage in 
                            commercial activities as security for 
                            intelligence collection activities.
                 TITLE XVII--CYBERSPACE-RELATED MATTERS

   Subtitle A--Matters Relating to Cyber Operations and Cyber Forces

Sec. 1701. Measures to enhance the readiness and effectiveness of the 
                            Cyber Mission Force.
Sec. 1702. Cyber intelligence center.
Sec. 1703. Performance metrics for pilot program for sharing cyber 
                            capabilities and related information with 
                            foreign operational partners.
Sec. 1704. Next generation cyber red teams.
Sec. 1705. Management of data assets by Chief Digital Officer.
Sec. 1706. Authority for countering illegal trafficking by Mexican 
                            transnational criminal organizations in 
                            cyberspace.
Sec. 1707. Pilot program for cybersecurity collaboration center 
                            inclusion of semiconductor manufacturers.
Sec. 1708. Independent evaluation regarding potential establishment of 
                            United States Cyber Force and further 
                            evolution of current model for management 
                            and execution of cyber mission.
Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Department of Defense Cybersecurity and 
                         Information Technology

Sec. 1711. Requirements for deployment of fifth generation information 
                            and communications capabilities to 
                            Department of Defense bases and facilities.
Sec. 1712. Department of Defense information network boundary and 
                            cross-domain defense.
Sec. 1713. Policy and guidance on memory-safe software programming.
Sec. 1714. Development of regional cybersecurity strategies.
Sec. 1715. Cyber incident reporting.
Sec. 1716. Management by Department of Defense of mobile applications.
Sec. 1717. Security enhancements for the nuclear command, control, and 
                            communications network.
Sec. 1718. Guidance regarding securing laboratories of the Armed 
                            Forces.
Sec. 1719. Establishing Identity, Credential, and Access Management 
                            initiative as a program of record.
Sec. 1720. Strategy on cybersecurity resiliency of Department of 
                            Defense space enterprise.
Sec. 1721. Requirements for implementation of user activity monitoring 
                            for cleared personnel and operational and 
                            information technology administrators and 
                            other privileged users.
Sec. 1722. Department of Defense digital content provenance.
Sec. 1723. Post-graduate employment of Cyber Service Academy 
                            scholarship recipients in intelligence 
                            community.
Sec. 1724. Minimum number of scholarships to be awarded annually 
                            through Cyber Service Academy.
Sec. 1725. Control and management of Department of Defense data and 
                            establishment of Chief Digital and 
                            Artificial Intelligence Officer Governing 
                            Council.
Sec. 1726. Requirement to support for cyber education and workforce 
                            development at institutions of higher 
                            learning.
Sec. 1727. Improvements relating to cyber protection support for 
                            Department of Defense personnel in 
                            positions highly vulnerable to cyber 
                            attack.
Sec. 1728. Comptroller General report on efforts to protect personal 
                            information of Department of Defense 
                            personnel from exploitation by foreign 
                            adversaries.
             TITLE XVIII--SPACE FORCE PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT

Sec. 1801. Short title.
Sec. 1802. Space Force Personnel Management Act transition plan.
Sec. 1803. Comprehensive assessment of Space Force equities in the 
                            National Guard.
  Subtitle A--Space Force Military Personnel System Without Component

Sec. 1811. Establishment of military personnel management system for 
                            the Space Force.
Sec. 1812. Composition of the Space Force without component.
Sec. 1813. Definitions for single personnel management system for the 
                            Space Force.
Sec. 1814. Basic policies relating to service in the Space Force.
Sec. 1815. Status and participation.
Sec. 1816. Officers.
Sec. 1817. Enlisted members.
Sec. 1818. Retention and separation generally.
Sec. 1819. Separation of officers for substandard performance of duty 
                            or for certain other reasons.
Sec. 1820. Retirement.
   Subtitle B--Conforming Amendments Related to Space Force Military 
                            Personnel System

Sec. 1831. Amendments to Department of the Air Force provisions of 
                            title 10, United States Code.
Sec. 1832. Amendments to subtitle A of title 10, United States Code.
Sec. 1833. Title 38, United States Code (veterans' benefits).
                   Subtitle C--Transition Provisions

Sec. 1841. Transition period.
Sec. 1842. Change of duty status of members of the Space Force.
Sec. 1843. Transfer to the Space Force of members of the Air Force 
                            Reserve and the Air National Guard.
Sec. 1844. Placement of officers on the Space Force officer list.
Sec. 1845. Disestablishment of regular Space Force.
Sec. 1846. End strength flexibility.
Sec. 1847. Promotion authority flexibility.
        Subtitle D--Other Amendments Related to the Space Force

Sec. 1851. Title 10, United States Code.
Sec. 1852. Other provisions of law.
            DIVISION B--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 2001. Short title.
Sec. 2002. Expiration of authorizations and amounts required to be 
                            specified by law.
Sec. 2003. Effective date.
                 TITLE XXI--ARMY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2101. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2102. Family housing.
Sec. 2103. Authorization of appropriations, Army.
Sec. 2104. Extension of authority to use cash payments in special 
                            account from land conveyance, Natick 
                            Soldier Systems Center, Massachusetts.
Sec. 2105. Extension of authority to carry out fiscal year 2018 project 
                            at Kunsan Air Base, Korea.
Sec. 2106. Extension of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2019 
                            projects.
Sec. 2107. Extension of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2021 
                            projects.
                 TITLE XXII--NAVY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2201. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2202. Family housing.
Sec. 2203. Authorization of appropriations, Navy.
Sec. 2204. Extension of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2019 
                            projects.
Sec. 2205. Extension of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2021 
                            projects.
              TITLE XXIII--AIR FORCE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2301. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
                            projects.
Sec. 2302. Family housing.
Sec. 2303. Authorization of appropriations, Air Force.
Sec. 2304. Extension of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2017 
                            projects.
Sec. 2305. Extension of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2018 
                            projects.
Sec. 2306. Extension of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2019 
                            projects.
Sec. 2307. Extension of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2021 
                            projects.
           TITLE XXIV--DEFENSE AGENCIES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2401. Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land 
                            acquisition projects.
Sec. 2402. Authorized Energy Resilience and Conservation Investment 
                            Program projects.
Sec. 2403. Authorization of appropriations, Defense Agencies.
Sec. 2404. Extension of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2018 
                            projects.
Sec. 2405. Extension and modification of authority to carry out certain 
                            fiscal year 2019 projects.
Sec. 2406. Extension of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2021 
                            projects.
Sec. 2407. Additional authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2022 
                            projects.
Sec. 2408. Additional authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2023 
                            projects.
                   TITLE XXV--INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS

  Subtitle A--North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
                                Program

Sec. 2501. Authorized NATO construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2502. Authorization of appropriations, NATO.
             Subtitle B--Host Country In-kind Contributions

Sec. 2511. Republic of Korea funded construction projects.
Sec. 2512. Republic of Poland funded construction projects.
            TITLE XXVI--GUARD AND RESERVE FORCES FACILITIES

Sec. 2601. Authorized Army National Guard construction and land 
                            acquisition projects.
Sec. 2602. Authorized Army Reserve construction and land acquisition 
                            projects.
Sec. 2603. Authorized Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve 
                            construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2604. Authorized Air National Guard construction and land 
                            acquisition projects.
Sec. 2605. Authorized Air Force Reserve construction and land 
                            acquisition projects.
Sec. 2606. Authorization of appropriations, National Guard and Reserve.
Sec. 2607. Extension of authority to carry out fiscal year 2018 project 
                            at Hulman Regional Airport, Indiana.
Sec. 2608. Extension of authority to carry out fiscal year 2019 project 
                            at Francis S. Gabreski Airport, New York.
Sec. 2609. Extension of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2021 
                            projects.
Sec. 2610. Modification of authority to carry out fiscal year 2022 
                            project at Nickell Memorial Armory, Kansas.
Sec. 2611. Modification of authority to carry out fiscal year 2023 
                            project at Camp Pendleton, California.
Sec. 2612. Authority to conduct restoration and modernization projects 
                            at the First City Troop Readiness Center in 
                            Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
          TITLE XXVII--BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 2701. Authorization of appropriations for base realignment and 
                            closure activities funded through 
                            Department of Defense Base Closure Account.
Sec. 2702. Prohibition on conducting additional base realignment and 
                            closure (BRAC) round.
Sec. 2703. Closure and disposal of the Pueblo Chemical Depot, Pueblo 
                            County, Colorado.
         TITLE XXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PROVISIONS

               Subtitle A--Military Construction Program

Sec. 2801. Authority for Indo-Pacific posture military construction 
                            projects.
Sec. 2802. Ordering authority for maintenance, repair, and construction 
                            of facilities of Department of Defense.
Sec. 2803. Application of area construction cost indices outside the 
                            United States.
Sec. 2804. Authorization of cost-plus incentive-fee contracting for 
                            military construction projects to mitigate 
                            risk to the Sentinel Program schedule and 
                            cost.
Sec. 2805. Extensions to the Military Lands Withdrawal Act relating to 
                            Barry M. Goldwater range.
Sec. 2806. Authority to lease land parcel for hospital and medical 
                            campus, Barrigada Transmitter Site, Guam.
Sec. 2807. Revision to access and management of Air Force memorial.
Sec. 2808. Development and operation of the Marine Corps Heritage 
                            Center and the National Museum of the 
                            Marine Corps.
Sec. 2809. Authority for acquisition of real property interest in park 
                            land owned by the Commonwealth of Virginia.
Sec. 2810. Movement or consolidation of Joint Spectrum Center to Fort 
                            Meade, Maryland, or another appropriate 
                            location.
Sec. 2811. Temporary expansion of authority for use of one-step turn-
                            key selection procedures for repair 
                            projects.
Sec. 2812. Modification of temporary increase of amounts in connection 
                            with authority to carry out unspecified 
                            minor military construction.
Sec. 2813. Pilot program on replacement of substandard enlisted 
                            barracks.
Sec. 2814. Expansion of Defense Community Infrastructure Pilot Program 
                            to include installations of the Coast 
                            Guard.
Sec. 2815. Modification of pilot program on increased use of 
                            sustainable building materials in military 
                            construction.
                      Subtitle B--Military Housing

                 PART I--Military Unaccompanied Housing

Sec. 2821. Uniform condition index for military unaccompanied housing.
Sec. 2822. Certification of habitability of military unaccompanied 
                            housing.
Sec. 2823. Maintenance work order management process for military 
                            unaccompanied housing.
Sec. 2824. Expansion of uniform code of basic standards for military 
                            housing to include military unaccompanied 
                            housing.
Sec. 2825. Oversight of military unaccompanied housing.
Sec. 2826. Elimination of flexibilities for adequacy or construction 
                            standards for military unaccompanied 
                            housing.
Sec. 2827. Design standards for military unaccompanied housing.
Sec. 2828. Termination of habitability standard waivers and assessment 
                            and plan with respect to military 
                            unaccompanied housing.
Sec. 2829. Requirement for security cameras in common areas and entry 
                            points of military unaccompanied housing.
Sec. 2830. Annual report on military unaccompanied housing.
                  PART II--Privatized Military Housing

Sec. 2841. Improvements to privatized military housing.
Sec. 2842. Implementation of Comptroller General Recommendations 
                            relating to strengthening oversight of 
                            privatized military housing.
Sec. 2843. Treatment of nondisclosure agreements with respect to 
                            privatized military housing.
                    PART III--Other Housing Matters

Sec. 2851. Department of Defense Military Housing Readiness Council.
Sec. 2852. Inclusion in annual status of forces survey of questions 
                            regarding living conditions of members of 
                            the Armed Forces.
                      Subtitle C--Land Conveyances

Sec. 2861. Land conveyance, BG J Sumner Jones Army Reserve Center, 
                            Wheeling, West Virginia.
Sec. 2862. Land conveyance, Wetzel County Memorial Army Reserve Center, 
                            New Martinsville, West Virginia.
                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 2871. Authority to conduct energy resilience and conservation 
                            projects at installations where non-
                            Department of Defense funded energy 
                            projects have occurred.
Sec. 2872. Limitation on authority to modify or restrict public access 
                            to Greenbury Point Conservation Area at 
                            Naval Support Activity Annapolis, Maryland.
Sec. 2873. Authorization for the Secretary of the Navy to resolve the 
                            electrical utility operations at Former 
                            Naval Air Station Barbers Point (currently 
                            known as ``Kalaeloa''), Hawaii.
Sec. 2874. Clarification of other transaction authority for 
                            installation or facility prototyping.
Sec. 2875. Requirement that Department of Defense include military 
                            installation resilience in real property 
                            management and installation master planning 
                            of Department.
Sec. 2876. Increase of limitation on fee for architectural and 
                            engineering services procured by military 
                            departments.
Sec. 2877. Requirement that all material types be considered for 
                            design-bid-build military construction 
                            projects.
Sec. 2878. Continuing education curriculum for members of the military 
                            construction planning and design workforce 
                            and acquisition workforce of the Department 
                            of Defense.
Sec. 2879. Guidance on Department of Defense-wide standards for access 
                            to installations of the Department.
Sec. 2880. Deployment of existing construction materials.
Sec. 2881. Technical corrections.
 DIVISION C--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND 
                          OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

      TITLE XXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

       Subtitle A--National Security Programs and Authorizations

Sec. 3101. National Nuclear Security Administration.
Sec. 3102. Defense environmental cleanup.
Sec. 3103. Other defense activities.
Sec. 3104. Nuclear energy.
   Subtitle B-- Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 3111. Limitation on use of funds for naval nuclear fuel systems 
                            based on low-enriched uranium.
Sec. 3112. Prohibition on ARIES expansion before realization of 30 pit 
                            per year base capability.
Sec. 3113. Plutonium Modernization Program management.
Sec. 3114. Pantex explosives manufacturing capability.
Sec. 3115. Limitation on establishing an enduring bioassurance program 
                            within the National Nuclear Security 
                            Administration.
Sec. 3116. Extension of authority on acceptance of contributions for 
                            acceleration or removal or security of 
                            fissile materials, radiological materials, 
                            and related equipment at vulnerable sites 
                            worldwide.
Sec. 3117. Modification of reporting requirements for program on 
                            vulnerable sites.
Sec. 3118. Implementation of enhanced mission delivery initiative.
Sec. 3119. Limitation on use of funds until provision of spend plan for 
                            W80-4 ALT weapon development.
Sec. 3120. Analyses of nuclear programs of foreign countries.
Sec. 3121. Enhancing National Nuclear Security Administration supply 
                            chain reliability.
Sec. 3122. Transfer of cybersecurity responsibilities to Administrator 
                            for Nuclear Security.
Sec. 3123. Redesignating duties related to departmental radiological 
                            and nuclear incident responses.
Sec. 3124. Modification of authority to establish certain contracting, 
                            program management, scientific, 
                            engineering, and technical positions.
Sec. 3125. Technical amendments to the Atomic Energy Defense Act.
Sec. 3126. Amendment to period for briefing requirements.
Sec. 3127. Repeal of reporting requirements for Uranium Capabilities 
                            Replacement Project.
          Subtitle C--Budget and Financial Management Matters

Sec. 3131. Updated financial integration policy.
                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 3141. Integration of technical expertise of Department of Energy 
                            into policymaking.
Sec. 3142. Amendments to the Energy Employees Occupational Illness 
                            Compensation Program Act of 2000.
Sec. 3143. Prohibition on sales of petroleum products from the 
                            Strategic Petroleum Reserve to certain 
                            countries.
Sec. 3144. U.S. nuclear fuel security initiative.
          TITLE XXXII--DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD

Sec. 3201. Authorization.
                  TITLE XXXV--MARITIME ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 3501. Maritime Administration.
                       DIVISION D--FUNDING TABLES

Sec. 4001. Authorization of amounts in funding tables.
                         TITLE XLI--PROCUREMENT

Sec. 4101. PROCUREMENT.
        TITLE XLII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

Sec. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION.
                 TITLE XLIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

Sec. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
                     TITLE XLIV--MILITARY PERSONNEL

Sec. 4401. MILITARY PERSONNEL.
                    TITLE XLV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 4501. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS.
                   TITLE XLVI--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 4601. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION.
      TITLE XLVII--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

Sec. 4701. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS.
                   DIVISION E--ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS

                         TITLE LI--PROCUREMENT

                     Subtitle D--Air Force Programs

Sec. 5131. Inventory of C-130 aircraft.
Sec. 5132. Extension of prohibition on certain reductions to B-1 bomber 
                            aircraft squadrons.
Sec. 5133. Prohibition on divestment of F-15E aircraft.
         TITLE LII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

Sec. 5201. Application of public-private talent exchange programs in 
                            the Department of Defense to quantum 
                            information sciences and technology 
                            research.
Sec. 5202. Briefing on Science, Mathematics, and Research for 
                            Transformation (SMART) Defense Education 
                            Program.
Sec. 5203. Improvements to defense quantum information science and 
                            technology research and development 
                            program.
Sec. 5204. Improvements to National Quantum Initiative Program.
Sec. 5205. Annual review of status of implementation plan for digital 
                            engineering career tracks.
Sec. 5206. Rapid response to emergent technology advancements or 
                            threats.
                 TITLE LIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                   Subtitle A--Briefings and Reports

Sec. 5341. Report by Department of Defense on alternatives to burn 
                            pits.
          TITLE LVI--COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS

                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

Sec. 5631. Modifications to transitional compensation for dependents of 
                            members separated for dependent abuse.
Sec. 5632. Report on effect of phase-out of reduction of survivor 
                            benefit plan survivor annuities by amount 
                            of dependency and indemnity compensation.
                   TITLE LVII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

           Subtitle A--TRICARE and Other Health Care Benefits

Sec. 5701. Expansion of eligibility for hearing aids to include 
                            children of certain retired members of the 
                            uniformed services.
                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

Sec. 5711. Modification of requirement to transfer research and 
                            development and public health functions to 
                            Defense Health Agency.
                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 5721. Report on military mental health care referral policies.
Sec. 5722. Comptroller General study on biomedical research and 
                            development funded by Department of 
                            Defense.
Sec. 5723. Report on provision of mental health services via telehealth 
                            to members of the Armed Forces and their 
                            dependents.
Sec. 5724. Expansion of doula care furnished by Department of Defense.
 TITLE LVIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

                   Subtitle D--Small Business Matters

Sec. 5841. Competition of small business concerns for Department of 
                            Defense contracts.
                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

Sec. 5851. Briefing on the redesignation of National Serial Number 
                            (NSN) parts as proprietary.
                        TITLE LX--OTHER MATTERS

                      Subtitle D--Counterterrorism

Sec. 6031. Establishing a coordinator for countering Mexico's criminal 
                            cartels.
                    Subtitle F--Studies and Reports

Sec. 6051. Report on food purchasing by the Department of Defense.
                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 6071. Improvements to Department of Veterans Affairs-Department of 
                            Defense Joint Executive Committee.
Sec. 6072. Grave markers at Santa Fe National Cemetery, New Mexico.
Sec. 6073. Modification of compensation for members of the Afghanistan 
                            War Commission.
Sec. 6074. Red Hill health impacts.
Sec. 6075. Permanent authorization of Undetectable Firearms Act of 
                            1988.
Sec. 6076. Sense of Congress on the importance of non-governmental 
                            recognition of military enlistees to 
                            improve community support for military 
                            recruitment.
Sec. 6077. Adjustment of threshold amount for minor medical facility 
                            projects of Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 6078. Designation of National Museum of the Mighty Eighth Air 
                            Force.
Sec. 6079. Revision of requirement for transfer of certain aircraft to 
                            State of California for wildfire 
                            suppression purposes.
Sec. 6080. Extension of active duty term for Attending Physician at 
                            United States Capitol.
Sec. 6081. Disclosures by directors, officers, and principal 
                            stockholders.
Sec. 6082. Preventing Child Sex Abuse.
Sec. 6083. Senate National Security Working Group.
Sec. 6084. Recognition as corporation and grant of Federal charter for 
                            National American Indian Veterans, 
                            Incorporated.
Subtitle H--Granting Recognition to Accomplished Talented Employees for 
                         Unwavering Loyalty Act

Sec. 6091. Short title.
Sec. 6092. Findings; sense of Congress.
Sec. 6093. Visa availability for Government Employee Immigrant Visa 
                            program.
   Subtitle I--Additional Matters Relating to Artificial Intelligence

Sec. 6096. Report on artificial intelligence regulation in financial 
                            services industry.
Sec. 6097. Artificial intelligence bug bounty programs.
Sec. 6098. Vulnerability analysis study for artificial intelligence-
                            enabled military applications.
Sec. 6099. Report on data sharing and coordination.
            TITLE LXII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

   Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Europe and the Russian Federation

Sec. 6231. Black Sea security and development strategy.
        Subtitle D--Matters Relating to the Indo-Pacific Region

Sec. 6241. Sense of Congress on the renewal of the Compacts of Free 
                            Association with the Republic of Palau, the 
                            Federated States of Micronesia, and the 
                            Republic of the Marshall Islands.
Sec. 6242. Eligibility of Taiwan for the strategic trade authorization 
                            exception to certain export control 
                            licensing requirements.
Sec. 6243. Audit to identify diversion of Department of Defense funding 
                            to China's research labs.
                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 6291. Sense of the Senate on digital trade and the digital 
                            economy.
Sec. 6292. Assessment of certain United States-origin technology used 
                            by foreign adversaries.
Sec. 6293. Virginia class submarine transfer certification.
   TITLE LXV--SPACE ACTIVITIES, STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, AND INTELLIGENCE 
                                MATTERS

                       Subtitle B--Nuclear Forces

Sec. 6511. Annual report on development of long-range stand-off weapon.
                  TITLE LXVIII--FEND OFF FENTANYL ACT

Sec. 6801. Short title.
Sec. 6802. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 6803. Definitions.
                     Subtitle A--Sanctions Matters

    PART I--Sanctions in Response to National Emergency Relating to 
                          Fentanyl Trafficking

Sec. 6811. Finding; policy.
Sec. 6812. Use of national emergency authorities; reporting.
Sec. 6813. Codification of Executive order imposing sanctions with 
                            respect to foreign persons involved in 
                            global illicit drug trade.
Sec. 6814. Imposition of sanctions with respect to fentanyl trafficking 
                            by transnational criminal organizations.
Sec. 6815. Penalties; waivers; exceptions.
Sec. 6816. Treatment of forfeited property of transnational criminal 
                            organizations.
                         PART II--Other Matters

Sec. 6821. Ten-year statute of limitations for violations of sanctions.
Sec. 6822. Classified report and briefing on staffing of Office of 
                            Foreign Assets Control.
Sec. 6823. Report on drug transportation routes and use of vessels with 
                            mislabeled cargo.
Sec. 6824. Report on actions of People's Republic of China with respect 
                            to persons involved in fentanyl supply 
                            chain.
               Subtitle B--Anti-Money Laundering Matters

Sec. 6831. Designation of illicit fentanyl transactions of sanctioned 
                            persons as of primary money laundering 
                            concern.
Sec. 6832. Treatment of transnational criminal organizations in 
                            suspicious transactions reports of the 
                            Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.
Sec. 6833. Report on trade-based money laundering in trade with Mexico, 
                            the People's Republic of China, and Burma.
         Subtitle C--Exception Relating to Importation of Goods

Sec. 6841. Exception relating to importation of goods.
      TITLE LXXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND GENERAL PROVISIONS

                      Subtitle B--Military Housing

                    PART III--Other Housing Matters

Sec. 7851. Report on plan to replace houses at Fort Leonard Wood.
                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 7881. Study on impact on members of the Armed Forces and 
                            dependents of construction projects that 
                            affect quality of life.
Sec. 7882. Modification of pilot program on establishment of account 
                            for reimbursement for use of testing 
                            facilities at installations of the 
                            Department of the Air Force.
      TITLE LXXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 8141. Accelerating Deployment of Versatile, Advanced Nuclear for 
                            Clean Energy.
       DIVISION F--DEPARTMENT OF STATE AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2023

Sec. 6001. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 6002. Definitions.
          TITLE LXI--DIPLOMATIC SECURITY AND CONSULAR AFFAIRS

Sec. 6101. Special hiring authority for passport services.
Sec. 6102. Quarterly report on passport wait times.
Sec. 6103. Passport travel advisories.
Sec. 6104. Strategy to ensure access to passport services for all 
                            Americans.
Sec. 6105. Strengthening the National Passport Information Center.
Sec. 6106. Strengthening passport customer visibility and transparency.
Sec. 6107. Annual Office of Authentications report.
Sec. 6108. Increased accountability in assignment restrictions and 
                            reviews.
Sec. 6109. Suitability reviews for Foreign Service Institute 
                            instructors.
Sec. 6110. Diplomatic security fellowship programs.
                     TITLE LXII--PERSONNEL MATTERS

             Subtitle A--Hiring, Promotion, and Development

Sec. 6201. Adjustment to promotion precepts.
Sec. 6202. Hiring authorities.
Sec. 6203. Extending paths to service for paid student interns.
Sec. 6204. Lateral Entry Program.
Sec. 6205. Mid-Career Mentoring Program.
Sec. 6206. Report on the Foreign Service Institute's language program.
Sec. 6207. Consideration of career civil servants as chiefs of 
                            missions.
Sec. 6208. Civil service rotational program.
Sec. 6209. Reporting requirement on chiefs of mission.
Sec. 6210. Report on chiefs of mission and deputy chiefs of mission.
Sec. 6211. Protection of retirement annuity for reemployment by 
                            Department.
Sec. 6212. Efforts to improve retention and prevent retaliation.
Sec. 6213. National advertising campaign.
Sec. 6214. Expansion of diplomats in residence programs.
            Subtitle B--Pay, Benefits, and Workforce Matters

Sec. 6221. Education allowance.
Sec. 6222. Per diem allowance for newly hired members of the Foreign 
                            Service.
Sec. 6223. Improving mental health services for foreign and civil 
                            servants.
Sec. 6224. Emergency back-up care.
Sec. 6225. Authority to provide services to non-chief of mission 
                            personnel.
Sec. 6226. Exception for government-financed air transportation.
Sec. 6227. Enhanced authorities to protect locally employed staff 
                            during emergencies.
Sec. 6228. Internet at hardship posts.
Sec. 6229. Competitive local compensation plan.
Sec. 6230. Supporting tandem couples in the Foreign Service.
Sec. 6231. Accessibility at diplomatic missions.
Sec. 6232. Report on breastfeeding accommodations overseas.
Sec. 6233. Determining the effectiveness of knowledge transfers between 
                            Foreign Service Officers.
Sec. 6234. Education allowance for dependents of Department of State 
                            employees located in United States 
                            territories.
         TITLE LXIII--INFORMATION SECURITY AND CYBER DIPLOMACY

Sec. 6301. Data-informed diplomacy.
Sec. 6302. Establishment and expansion of the Bureau Chief Data Officer 
                            Program.
Sec. 6303. Establishment of the Chief Artificial Intelligence Officer 
                            of the Department of State.
Sec. 6304. Strengthening the Chief Information Officer of the 
                            Department of State.
Sec. 6305. Sense of Congress on strengthening enterprise governance.
Sec. 6306. Digital connectivity and cybersecurity partnership.
Sec. 6307. Establishment of a cyberspace, digital connectivity, and 
                            related technologies (CDT) fund.
Sec. 6308. Cyber protection support for personnel of the Department of 
                            State in positions highly vulnerable to 
                            cyber attack.
                TITLE LXIV--ORGANIZATION AND OPERATIONS

Sec. 6401. Personal services contractors.
Sec. 6402. Hard-to-fill posts.
Sec. 6403. Enhanced oversight of the Office of Civil Rights.
Sec. 6404. Crisis response operations.
Sec. 6405. Special Envoy to the Pacific Islands Forum.
Sec. 6406. Special Envoy for Belarus.
Sec. 6407. Overseas placement of special appointment positions.
Sec. 6408. Resources for United States nationals unlawfully or 
                            wrongfully detained abroad.
                     TITLE LXV--ECONOMIC DIPLOMACY

Sec. 6501. Report on recruitment, retention, and promotion of Foreign 
                            Service economic officers.
Sec. 6502. Mandate to revise Department of State metrics for successful 
                            economic and commercial diplomacy.
Sec. 6503. Chief of mission economic responsibilities.
Sec. 6504. Direction to embassy deal teams.
Sec. 6505. Establishment of a ``Deal Team of the Year'' award.
                      TITLE LXVI--PUBLIC DIPLOMACY

Sec. 6601. Public diplomacy outreach.
Sec. 6602. Modification on use of funds for Radio Free Europe/Radio 
                            Liberty.
Sec. 6603. International broadcasting.
Sec. 6604. John Lewis Civil Rights Fellowship program.
Sec. 6605. Domestic engagement and public affairs.
Sec. 6606. Extension of Global Engagement Center.
Sec. 6607. Paperwork Reduction Act.
Sec. 6608. Modernization and enhancement strategy.
                       TITLE LXVII--OTHER MATTERS

Sec. 6701. Internships of United States nationals at international 
                            organizations.
Sec. 6702. Training for international organizations.
Sec. 6703. Modification to transparency on international agreements and 
                            non-binding instruments.
Sec. 6704. Report on partner forces utilizing United States security 
                            assistance identified as using hunger as a 
                            weapon of war.
Sec. 6705. Infrastructure projects and investments by the United States 
                            and People's Republic of China.
Sec. 6706. Special envoys.
Sec. 6707. US-ASEAN Center.
Sec. 6708. Briefings on the United States-European Union Trade and 
                            Technology Council.
Sec. 6709. Modification and repeal of reports.
Sec. 6710. Modification of Build Act of 2018 to prioritize projects 
                            that advance national security.
Sec. 6711. Permitting for international bridges.
                      TITLE LXVIII--AUKUS MATTERS

Sec. 6801. Definitions.
              Subtitle A--Outlining the AUKUS Partnership

Sec. 6811. Statement of policy on the AUKUS partnership.
Sec. 6812. Senior Advisor for the AUKUS partnership at the Department 
                            of State.
         Subtitle B--Authorization for AUKUS Submarine Training

Sec. 6823. Australia, United Kingdom, and United States submarine 
                            security training.
  Subtitle C--Streamlining and Protecting Transfers of United States 
                  Military Technology From Compromise

Sec. 6831. Priority for Australia and the United Kingdom in Foreign 
                            Military Sales and Direct Commercial Sales.
Sec. 6832. Identification and pre-clearance of platforms, technologies, 
                            and equipment for sale to Australia and the 
                            United Kingdom through Foreign Military 
                            Sales and Direct Commercial Sales.
Sec. 6833. Export control exemptions and standards.
Sec. 6834. Expedited review of export licenses for exports of advanced 
                            technologies to Australia, the United 
                            Kingdom, and Canada.
Sec. 6835. United States Munitions List.
                    Subtitle D--Other AUKUS Matters

Sec. 6841. Reporting related to the AUKUS partnership.
        DIVISION G--UNIDENTIFIED ANOMALOUS PHENOMENA DISCLOSURE

Sec. 9001. Short title.
Sec. 9002. Findings, declarations, and purposes.
Sec. 9003. Definitions.
Sec. 9004. Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena Records Collection at the 
                            National Archives and Records 
                            Administration.
Sec. 9005. Review, identification, transmission to the National 
                            Archives, and public disclosure of 
                            unidentified anomalous phenomena records by 
                            Government offices.
Sec. 9006. Grounds for postponement of public disclosure of 
                            unidentified anomalous phenomena records.
Sec. 9007. Establishment and powers of the Unidentified Anomalous 
                            Phenomena Records Review Board.
Sec. 9008. Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena Records Review Board 
                            personnel.
Sec. 9009. Review of records by the Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena 
                            Records Review Board.
Sec. 9010. Disclosure of recovered technologies of unknown origin and 
                            biological evidence of non-human 
                            intelligence.
Sec. 9011. Disclosure of other materials and additional study.
Sec. 9012. Rules of construction.
Sec. 9013. Termination of effect of division.
Sec. 9014. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 9015. Severability.
      DIVISION H--ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL APPOINTMENT ACT OF 2023

Sec. 10001. Short title.
Sec. 10002. Appointment and term of service of Architect of the 
                            Capitol.
Sec. 10003. Appointment of Deputy Architect of the Capitol; vacancy in 
                            Architect or Deputy Architect.
Sec. 10004. Deputy Architect of the Capitol to serve as acting in case 
                            of absence, disability, or vacancy.
     DIVISION I--FAIR DEBT COLLECTION PRACTICES FOR SERVICEMEMBERS

Sec. 11001. Short title.
Sec. 11002. Enhanced protection against debt collector harassment of 
                            servicemembers.
Sec. 11003. GAO study.
 DIVISION J--NATIVE AMERICAN HOUSING ASSISTANCE AND SELF-DETERMINATION 
                      REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2023

Sec. 11001. Short title.
Sec. 11002. Consolidation of environmental review requirements.
Sec. 11003. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 11004. Student housing assistance.
Sec. 11005. Application of rent rule only to units owned or operated by 
                            Indian tribe or tribally designated housing 
                            entity.
Sec. 11006. De minimis exemption for procurement of goods and services.
Sec. 11007. Homeownership or lease-to-own low-income requirement and 
                            income targeting.
Sec. 11008. Lease requirements and tenant selection.
Sec. 11009. Indian Health Service.
Sec. 11010. Statutory authority to suspend grant funds in emergencies.
Sec. 11011. Reports to Congress.
Sec. 11012. 99-year leasehold interest in trust or restricted lands for 
                            housing purposes.
Sec. 11013. Amendments for block grants for affordable housing 
                            activities.
Sec. 11014. Reauthorization of Native Hawaiian homeownership 
                            provisions.
Sec. 11015. Total development cost maximum project cost.
Sec. 11016. Community-based development organizations and special 
                            activities by Indian Tribes.
Sec. 11017. Section 184 Indian Home Loan Guarantee program.
Sec. 11018. Loan guarantees for Native Hawaiian housing.
Sec. 11019. Drug elimination program.
Sec. 11020. Rental assistance for homeless or at-risk Indian veterans.
Sec. 11021. Continuum of care.
Sec. 11022. Leveraging.
 DIVISION K--FORT BELKNAP INDIAN COMMUNITY WATER RIGHTS SETTLEMENT ACT 
                                OF 2023

Sec. 11001. Short title.
Sec. 11002. Purposes.
Sec. 11003. Definitions.
Sec. 11004. Ratification of Compact.
Sec. 11005. Tribal water rights.
Sec. 11006. Exchange and transfer of land.
Sec. 11007. Storage allocation from Lake Elwell.
Sec. 11008. Milk River Project mitigation.
Sec. 11009. Fort Belknap Indian Irrigation Project System.
Sec. 11010. Satisfaction of claims.
Sec. 11011. Waivers and releases of claims.
Sec. 11012. Aaniiih Nakoda Settlement Trust Fund.
Sec. 11013. Fort Belknap Indian Community Water Settlement 
                            Implementation Fund.
Sec. 11014. Funding.
Sec. 11015. Miscellaneous provisions.
Sec. 11016. Antideficiency.
  DIVISION L--COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS

           TITLE LXIX--FEDERAL DATA AND INFORMATION SECURITY

        Subtitle A--Federal Data Center Enhancement Act of 2023

Sec. 11001. Short title.
Sec. 11002. Federal Data Center Consolidation Initiative Amendments.
           TITLE LXX--STEMMING THE FLOW OF ILLICIT NARCOTICS

              Subtitle A--Enhancing DHS Drug Seizures Act

Sec. 11101. Short title.
Sec. 11102. Coordination and information sharing.
Sec. 11103. Danger pay for Department of Homeland Security personnel 
                            deployed abroad.
Sec. 11104. Improving training to foreign-vetted law enforcement or 
                            national security units.
Sec. 11105. Enhancing the operations of U.S. Customs and Border 
                            Protection in foreign countries.
Sec. 11106. Drug seizure data improvement.
Sec. 11107. Drug performance measures.
Sec. 11108. Penalties for hindering immigration, border, and customs 
                            controls.
           Subtitle B--Non-Intrusive Inspection Expansion Act

Sec. 11111. Short title.
Sec. 11112. Use of non-intrusive inspection systems at land ports of 
                            entry.
Sec. 11113. Non-intrusive inspection systems for outbound inspections.
Sec. 11114. GAO review and report.
       Subtitle C--Securing America's Ports of Entry Act of 2023

Sec. 11121. Short title.
Sec. 11122. Additional U.S. Customs and Border Protection personnel.
Sec. 11123. Ports of entry infrastructure enhancement report.
Sec. 11124. Reporting requirements.
Sec. 11125. Authorization of appropriations.
               Subtitle D--Border Patrol Enhancement Act

Sec. 11131. Short title.
Sec. 11132. Authorized staffing level for the United States Border 
                            Patrol.
Sec. 11133. Establishment of higher rates of regularly scheduled 
                            overtime pay for United States Border 
                            Patrol agents classified at GS-12.
Sec. 11134. GAO assessment of recruiting efforts, hiring requirements, 
                            and retention of law enforcement personnel.
Sec. 11135. Continuing training.
Sec. 11136. Reporting requirements.
                      Subtitle E--END FENTANYL Act

Sec. 11141. Short titles.
Sec. 11142. Ensuring timely updates to U.S. Customs and Border 
                            Protection field manuals.
         TITLE LXXI--IMPROVING LOBBYING DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS

            Subtitle A--Lobbying Disclosure Improvement Act

Sec. 11201. Short title.
Sec. 11202. Registrant disclosure regarding foreign agent registration 
                            exemption.
        Subtitle B--Disclosing Foreign Influence in Lobbying Act

Sec. 11211. Short title.
Sec. 11212. Clarification of contents of registration.
    TITLE LXXII--PROTECTING OUR DOMESTIC WORKFORCE AND SUPPLY CHAIN

  Subtitle A--Government-wide Study Relating to High-security Leased 
                                 Space

Sec. 11301. Government-wide study.
       Subtitle B--Intergovernmental Critical Minerals Task Force

Sec. 11311. Short title.
Sec. 11312. Findings.
Sec. 11313. Intergovernmental critical minerals task force.
 Subtitle C--Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism Pilot Program 
                              Act of 2023

Sec. 11321. Short title.
Sec. 11322. Definitions.
Sec. 11323. Pilot program on participation of third-party logistics 
                            providers in ctpat.
Sec. 11324. Report on effectiveness of CTPAT.
Sec. 11325. No additional funds authorized.
               Subtitle D--Military Spouse Employment Act

Sec. 11331. Short title.
Sec. 11332. Appointment of military spouses.
Sec. 11333. GAO study and report.
                  Subtitle E--Designation of Airports

Sec. 11341. Designation of additional port of entry for the importation 
                            and exportation of wildlife and wildlife 
                            products by the United States Fish and 
                            Wildlife Service.
    DIVISION M--INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2024

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
                    TITLE I--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 102. Classified Schedule of Authorizations.
Sec. 103. Intelligence Community Management Account.
Sec. 104. Increase in employee compensation and benefits authorized by 
                            law.
 TITLE II--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.
               TITLE III--INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MATTERS

           Subtitle A--General Intelligence Community Matters

Sec. 301. Plan to recruit, train, and retain personnel with experience 
                            in financial intelligence and emerging 
                            technologies.
Sec. 302. Policy and performance framework for mobility of intelligence 
                            community workforce.
Sec. 303. In-State tuition rates for active duty members of the 
                            intelligence community.
Sec. 304. Standards, criteria, and guidance for counterintelligence 
                            vulnerability assessments and surveys.
Sec. 305. Improving administration of certain post-employment 
                            restrictions for intelligence community.
Sec. 306. Mission of the National Counterintelligence and Security 
                            Center.
Sec. 307. Prohibition relating to transport of individuals detained at 
                            United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
                            Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 308. Department of Energy science and technology risk assessments.
Sec. 309. Congressional oversight of intelligence community risk 
                            assessments.
Sec. 310. Inspector General review of dissemination by Federal Bureau 
                            of Investigation Richmond, Virginia, field 
                            office of certain document.
Sec. 311. Office of Intelligence and Analysis.
                Subtitle B--Central Intelligence Agency

Sec. 321. Change to penalties and increased availability of mental 
                            health treatment for unlawful conduct on 
                            Central Intelligence Agency installations.
Sec. 322. Modifications to procurement authorities of the Central 
                            Intelligence Agency.
Sec. 323. Establishment of Central Intelligence Agency standard 
                            workplace sexual misconduct complaint 
                            investigation procedure.
             TITLE IV--MATTERS CONCERNING FOREIGN COUNTRIES

                 Subtitle A--People's Republic of China

Sec. 401. Intelligence community coordinator for accountability of 
                            atrocities of the People's Republic of 
                            China.
Sec. 402. Interagency working group and report on the malign efforts of 
                            the People's Republic of China in Africa.
Sec. 403. Amendment to requirement for annual assessment by 
                            intelligence community working group for 
                            monitoring the economic and technological 
                            capabilities of the People's Republic of 
                            China.
Sec. 404. Assessments of reciprocity in the relationship between the 
                            United States and the People's Republic of 
                            China.
Sec. 405. Annual briefing on intelligence community efforts to identify 
                            and mitigate Chinese Communist Party and 
                            Russian foreign malign influence operations 
                            against the United States.
Sec. 406. Assessment of threat posed to United States ports by cranes 
                            manufactured by countries of concern.
                  Subtitle B--Other Foreign Countries

Sec. 411. Report on efforts to capture and detain United States 
                            citizens as hostages.
Sec. 412. Sense of Congress on priority of fentanyl in National 
                            Intelligence Priorities Framework.
  TITLE V--MATTERS PERTAINING TO UNITED STATES ECONOMIC AND EMERGING 
         TECHNOLOGY COMPETITION WITH UNITED STATES ADVERSARIES

                      Subtitle A--General Matters

Sec. 501. Assignment of detailees from intelligence community to 
                            Department of Commerce.
   Subtitle B--Next-generation Energy, Biotechnology, and Artificial 
                              Intelligence

Sec. 511. Expanded annual assessment of economic and technological 
                            capabilities of the People's Republic of 
                            China.
Sec. 512. Assessment of using civil nuclear energy for intelligence 
                            community capabilities.
Sec. 513. Policies established by Director of National Intelligence for 
                            artificial intelligence capabilities.
                    TITLE VI--WHISTLEBLOWER MATTERS

Sec. 601. Submittal to Congress of complaints and information by 
                            whistleblowers in the intelligence 
                            community.
Sec. 602. Prohibition against disclosure of whistleblower identity as 
                            reprisal against whistleblower disclosure 
                            by employees and contractors in 
                            intelligence community.
Sec. 603. Establishing process parity for adverse security clearance 
                            and access determinations.
Sec. 604. Elimination of cap on compensatory damages for retaliatory 
                            revocation of security clearances and 
                            access determinations.
Sec. 605. Modification and repeal of reporting requirements.
                    TITLE VII--CLASSIFICATION REFORM

             Subtitle A--Classification Reform Act of 2023

Sec. 701. Short title.
Sec. 702. Definitions.
Sec. 703. Classification and declassification of information.
Sec. 704. Transparency officers.
            Subtitle B--Sensible Classification Act of 2023

Sec. 711. Short title.
Sec. 712. Definitions.
Sec. 713. Findings and sense of the Senate.
Sec. 714. Classification authority.
Sec. 715. Promoting efficient declassification review.
Sec. 716. Training to promote sensible classification.
Sec. 717. Improvements to Public Interest Declassification Board.
Sec. 718. Implementation of technology for classification and 
                            declassification.
Sec. 719. Studies and recommendations on necessity of security 
                            clearances.
          TITLE VIII--SECURITY CLEARANCE AND TRUSTED WORKFORCE

Sec. 801. Review of shared information technology services for 
                            personnel vetting.
Sec. 802. Timeliness standard for rendering determinations of trust for 
                            personnel vetting.
Sec. 803. Annual report on personnel vetting trust determinations.
Sec. 804. Survey to assess strengths and weaknesses of Trusted 
                            Workforce 2.0.
Sec. 805. Prohibition on denial of eligibility for access to classified 
                            information solely because of past use of 
                            cannabis.
                  TITLE IX--ANOMALOUS HEALTH INCIDENTS

Sec. 901. Improved funding flexibility for payments made by the Central 
                            Intelligence Agency for qualifying injuries 
                            to the brain.
Sec. 902. Clarification of requirements to seek certain benefits 
                            relating to injuries to the brain.
Sec. 903. Intelligence community implementation of HAVANA Act of 2021 
                            authorities.
Sec. 904. Report and briefing on Central Intelligence Agency handling 
                            of anomalous health incidents.
                       TITLE X--ELECTION SECURITY

Sec. 1001. Strengthening Election Cybersecurity to Uphold Respect for 
                            Elections through Independent Testing Act 
                            of 2023.
                        TITLE XI--OTHER MATTERS

Sec. 1101. Modification of reporting requirement for All-domain Anomaly 
                            Resolution Office.
Sec. 1102. Funding limitations relating to unidentified anomalous 
                            phenomena.

SEC. 2. ORGANIZATION OF ACT INTO DIVISIONS; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Divisions.--This Act is organized into four divisions as 
follows:
            (1) Division A--Department of Defense Authorizations.
            (2) Division B--Military Construction Authorizations.
            (3) Division C--Department of Energy National Security 
        Authorizations and Other Authorizations.
            (4) Division D--Funding Tables.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

SEC. 3. CONGRESSIONAL DEFENSE COMMITTEES.

    In this Act, the term ``congressional defense committees'' has the 
meaning given that term in section 101(a)(16) of title 10, United 
States Code.

SEC. 4. BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF THIS ACT.

    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purposes of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, jointly submitted for printing in the 
Congressional Record by the Chairmen of the House and Senate Budget 
Committees, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to 
the vote on passage in the House acting first on the conference report 
or amendment between the Houses.

            DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATIONS

                          TITLE I--PROCUREMENT

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2024 
for procurement for the Army, the Navy and the Marine Corps, the Air 
Force and the Space Force, and Defense-wide activities, as specified in 
the funding table in section 4101.

                       Subtitle B--Army Programs

SEC. 111. REPORT ON ARMY REQUIREMENTS AND ACQUISITION STRATEGY FOR 
              NIGHT VISION DEVICES.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than February 29, 2024, the 
Secretary of the Army shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on night vision devices.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following elements:
            (1) An identification of the specific capabilities the Army 
        is seeking to achieve in night vision.
            (2) An identification of the capabilities in night vision 
        required by unit, including the number and type of units for 
        each capability.
            (3) An identification of the total requirement for night 
        vision devices in the Army, disaggregated by number and type of 
        unit.
            (4) A description of the acquisition strategy of the Army 
        for achieving the capabilities described in paragraph (1), 
        including a description of each of the following:
                    (A) The acquisition objective for each type of 
                night vision device.
                    (B) The programmed purchase quantities for night 
                vision devices required each year.
                    (C) The contract type of each procurement of night 
                vision devices.
                    (D) The expected date for achieving the 
                capabilities.
                    (E) The industrial base constraints on each type of 
                night vision device.
                    (F) The modernization plan for each type of night 
                vision device.

SEC. 112. ARMY PLAN FOR ENSURING SOURCES OF CANNON TUBES.

    (a) Updated Assessment.--The Secretary of the Army shall update the 
assessment of the Secretary on the sufficiency of the development, 
production, procurement, and modernization of the defense industrial 
base for cannon and large caliber weapons tubes.
    (b) Submittal to Congress.--Not later than February 29, 2024, the 
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate 
and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives an 
update to the report submitted to Congress in March 2022 entitled 
``Army Plan for Ensuring Sources of Cannon Tubes''.

SEC. 113. STRATEGY FOR ARMY TACTICAL WHEELED VEHICLE PROGRAM.

    (a) Strategy Required.--In the budget justification materials 
submitted in support of the budget of the Department of Defense (as 
submitted with the budget of the President under section 1105(a) of 
title 31, United States Code) for fiscal year 2025 and every five years 
thereafter, the Secretary of the Army shall include a report on the 
strategy of the Army for tactical wheeled vehicles.
    (b) Requirements for Strategy.--Each strategy required by 
subsection (a) shall--
            (1) align with the applicable national defense strategy 
        under section 113(g) of title 10, United States Code, and 
        applicable policies;
            (2) be designed so that the force of tactical wheeled 
        vehicles provided under the strategy supports the national 
        security strategy of the United States as set forth in the most 
        recent national security strategy report of the President under 
        section 108 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
        3043); and
            (3) define capabilities and capacity requirements across 
        the entire fleet of tactical wheeled vehicles, including--
                    (A) light, medium, and heavy tactical wheeled 
                vehicles; and
                    (B) associated trailer and support equipment.
    (c) Strategy Elements.--Each strategy required by subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
            (1) A detailed program for the construction of light, 
        medium, and heavy tactical wheeled vehicles for the Army over 
        the next five fiscal years.
            (2) A description of the necessary force structure and 
        capabilities of tactical wheeled vehicles to meet the 
        requirements of the national security strategy described in 
        subsection (b)(2).
            (3) The estimated levels of annual funding, by vehicle 
        class, in both graphical and tabular form, necessary to carry 
        out the program described in paragraph (1), together with a 
        discussion of the procurement strategies on which such 
        estimated levels of annual funding are based.
            (4) The estimated total cost of construction for each 
        vehicle class used to determine the estimated levels of annual 
        funding described in paragraph (3).
    (d) Considerations.--In developing each strategy required by 
subsection (a), the Secretary of the Army shall consider the following 
objectives and factors:
            (1) Objectives relating to protection, fleet operations, 
        mission command, mobility, and the industrial base.
            (2) Technological advances that will increase efficiency of 
        and reduce demand for tactical wheeled vehicles.
            (3) Technological advances that allow for the operation of 
        tactical wheeled vehicles in a variety of climate and 
        geographic conditions.
            (4) Existing commercial technologies such as vehicle 
        electrification, autonomous capabilities, and predictive 
        maintenance, among others.
            (5) The capabilities of autonomous equivalents to tactical 
        wheeled vehicles.
    (e) Briefing Requirements.--Not later than 15 days after each 
budget submission described in subsection (a), in conjunction with the 
submission of each strategy required by such subsection, the Secretary 
of the Army shall provide a briefing to the congressional defense 
committees that addresses the investment needed for each platform of 
tactical wheeled vehicle across the future-years defense program.

SEC. 114. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF ANNUAL UPDATES TO MASTER PLANS 
              AND INVESTMENT STRATEGIES FOR ARMY AMMUNITION PLANTS.

    Section 2834(d) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2022 (division B of Public Law 117-81; 135 Stat. 2201) is 
amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``March 31, 2026'' and inserting ``March 31, 2030''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(5) A description of any changes made to the master plan 
        based upon current global events, including pandemics and armed 
        conflicts.''.

SEC. 115. REPORT ON ACQUISITION STRATEGIES OF THE LOGISTICS 
              AUGMENTATION PROGRAM OF THE ARMY.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army, in conjunction with 
the Office of the Secretary of Defense and in coordination with the 
geographic combatant commanders, shall submit to the Committee on Armed 
Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House 
of Representatives a report reviewing the proposed recompete of the 
operational task orders of the geographic combatant commands under the 
contract for the logistics augmentation program of the Army that will 
expire in 2028 (commonly referred to as ``LOGCAP V'').
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A business case analysis of the cost and operational 
        benefit of recompeting the task orders described in subsection 
        (a).
            (2) Input from stakeholders, including Army Sustainment 
        Command, the geographic combatant commanders, and Army service 
        component commanders, on the desirability and operational 
        impacts of the proposed recompete described in subsection (a).
            (3) Detailed cost estimates and timelines, including 
        projected transition costs and timelines for the task orders 
        described in subsection (a).
            (4) An assessment of the potential impacts related to 
        quality and timing of transitioning to the new logistics 
        augmentation program (commonly referred to as ``LOGCAP VI'').
            (5) An analysis of recompeting the task orders described in 
        subsection (a) compared to transitioning to LOGCAP VI.
            (6) An overview of potential innovations and efficiencies 
        derived from a competition for LOGCAP VI.
            (7) An explanation of the benefit of recompeting the task 
        orders described in subsection (a) compared to an open 
        competition for LOGCAP VI.
            (8) A breakdown of additional authorities needed to move 
        directly to LOGCAP VI.

                       Subtitle C--Navy Programs

SEC. 121. REDUCTION IN THE MINIMUM NUMBER OF NAVY CARRIER AIR WINGS AND 
              CARRIER AIR WING HEADQUARTERS REQUIRED TO BE MAINTAINED.

    Section 8062(e) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``until the earlier of'' 
        and all that follows and inserting ``until the date on which 
        additional operationally deployable aircraft carriers can fully 
        support a 10th carrier air wing;''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``the earlier of'' and 
        all that follows through ``and (B) of'' and inserting ``the 
        date referred to in''.

SEC. 122. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR NAVY 
              PORT WATERBORNE SECURITY BARRIERS.

    Section 130(a) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1665), as most 
recently amended by section 123(a) of the James M. Inhofe National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263), is 
further amended by striking ``through 2023'' and inserting ``through 
2024''.

SEC. 123. MULTIYEAR PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY FOR VIRGINIA CLASS SUBMARINE 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Authority for Multiyear Procurement.--Subject to section 3501 
of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of the Navy may enter 
into one or more multiyear contracts for the procurement of 10 Virginia 
class submarines.
    (b) Authority for Advance Procurement and Economic Order 
Quantity.--The Secretary of the Navy may enter into one or more 
contracts, beginning in fiscal year 2024, for advance procurement 
associated with the Virginia class submarines for which authorization 
to enter into a multiyear procurement contract is provided under 
subsection (a) and for equipment or subsystems associated with the 
Virginia class submarine program, including procurement of--
            (1) long lead time material; or
            (2) material or equipment in economic order quantities when 
        cost savings are achievable.
    (c) Condition for Out-year Contract Payments.--A contract entered 
into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the 
United States to make a payment under the contract for a fiscal year 
after fiscal year 2025 is subject to the availability of appropriations 
or funds for that purpose for such later fiscal year.
    (d) Limitation on Termination Liability.--A contract for the 
construction of Virginia class submarines entered into under subsection 
(a) shall include a clause that limits the liability of the United 
States to the contractor for any termination of the contract. The 
maximum liability of the United States under the clause shall be the 
amount appropriated for the submarines covered by the contract 
regardless of the amount obligated under the contract.

SEC. 124. SENSE OF SENATE ON PROCUREMENT OF OUTSTANDING F/A-18 SUPER 
              HORNET PLATFORMS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that Congress appropriated funds for 
twelve F/A-18 Super Hornet platforms in fiscal year 2022 and eight F/A-
18 Super Hornet platforms in fiscal year 2023, but the Navy has yet to 
enter into any contracts for the procurement of such platforms.
    (b) Sense of Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the Secretary of the Navy and the contractor team 
        should expeditiously enter into contractual agreements to 
        procure the twenty F/A-18 Super Hornet platforms for which 
        funds have been appropriated; and
            (2) the Senate urges the Secretary of the Navy and the 
        contractor team to comply with congressional intent and 
        applicable law with appropriate expediency to bolster the 
        Navy's fleet of strike fighter aircraft and avoid further 
        disruption to the defense industrial base.

                     Subtitle D--Air Force Programs

SEC. 131. LIMITATIONS AND MINIMUM INVENTORY REQUIREMENT RELATING TO RQ-
              4 AIRCRAFT.

    Section 9062 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(l)(1) During the period beginning on the date of the enactment 
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 and 
ending on September 30, 2028, the Secretary of the Air Force may not--
            ``(A) retire an RQ-4 aircraft;
            ``(B) reduce funding for unit personnel or weapon system 
        sustainment activities for RQ-4 aircraft in a manner that 
        presumes future congressional authority to divest such 
        aircraft;
            ``(C) keep an RQ-4 aircraft in a status considered excess 
        to the requirements of the possessing command and awaiting 
        disposition instructions (commonly referred to as `XJ' status); 
        or
            ``(D) decrease the total aircraft inventory of RQ-4 
        aircraft below 10 aircraft.
    ``(2) The prohibition under paragraph (1) shall not apply to 
individual RQ-4 aircraft that the Secretary of the Air Force 
determines, on a case-by-case basis, to be no longer mission capable 
and uneconomical to repair because of aircraft accidents, mishaps, or 
excessive material degradation and non-airworthiness status of certain 
aircraft.''.

SEC. 132. LIMITATION ON DIVESTITURE OF T-1A TRAINING AIRCRAFT.

    No divestiture of any T-1A training aircraft may occur until the 
Chief of Staff of the Air Force submits to the congressional defense 
committees a certification of--
            (1) the fleet-wide implementation of the Undergraduate 
        Pilot Training 2.5 curriculum and the effect of such 
        implementation on the undergraduate pilot training pipeline; 
        and
            (2) how the divestiture would affect existing programs of 
        the Air Force that accelerate pilot training.

SEC. 133. MODIFICATION TO MINIMUM INVENTORY REQUIREMENT FOR A-10 
              AIRCRAFT.

    (a) Fiscal Year 2017 NDAA.--Section 134(d) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 
2038), as amended by section 141(b)(1) of the James M. Inhofe National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263), is 
further amended by striking ``153 A-10 aircraft'' and inserting ``135 
A-10 aircraft''.
    (b) Fiscal Year 2016 NDAA.--Section 142(b)(2) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 
Stat. 755), as amended by section 141(b)(2) of the James M. Inhofe 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 
117-263), is further amended by striking ``153 A-10 aircraft'' and 
inserting ``135 A-10 aircraft''.

SEC. 134. MODIFICATION TO MINIMUM REQUIREMENT FOR TOTAL PRIMARY MISSION 
              AIRCRAFT INVENTORY OF AIR FORCE FIGHTER AIRCRAFT.

    Section 9062(i)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``1,145 fighter aircraft'' and inserting ``1,112 fighter 
aircraft''.

SEC. 135. MODIFICATION OF LIMITATION ON DIVESTMENT OF F-15 AIRCRAFT.

    Section 150 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263; 136 Stat. 2456) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (C)(ii), by striking ``; and'' 
                and inserting a semicolon;
                    (B) in subparagraph (D), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(E) for each covered F-15 aircraft that the 
                Secretary plans to divest, a description of--
                            ``(i) the upgrades and modifications done 
                        to the aircraft, including the date of each 
                        modification and the value amount of each 
                        modification in current year dollars; and
                            ``(ii) the estimated remaining service life 
                        of--
                                    ``(I) the aircraft; and
                                    ``(II) the onboard systems of the 
                                aircraft.''; and
            (2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection (c):
    ``(c) Updates.--Not later than October 1 of each year through 
October 1, 2028, the Secretary of the Air Force shall--
            ``(1) update the report required under subsection (b); and
            ``(2) submit such update to the congressional defense 
        committees.''.

SEC. 136. REPORT ON AIR FORCE EXECUTIVE AIRCRAFT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than January 1, 2025, the Secretary of 
the Air Force shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report that includes the following:
            (1) An overview of the total missions flown by executive 
        aircraft of the Air Force during the five fiscal years 
        preceding the fiscal year in which the report is submitted, 
        disaggregated by fiscal year, including the mission types and 
        Government agencies supported.
            (2) An identification of each mission flown by executive 
        aircraft of the Air Force during the five fiscal years 
        preceding the fiscal year in which the report is submitted, 
        disaggregated by fiscal year, including the mission type, 
        overall cost, average flight hour cost, and Government agency 
        supported, disaggregated by wing and by type of aircraft.
            (3) The projected mission capacity for executive aircraft 
        of the Air Force for the five fiscal years following the fiscal 
        year in which the report is submitted, disaggregated by fiscal 
        year, factoring in any planned changes to aircraft inventory.
            (4) A description of any anomalous conditions that may have 
        impacted the availability, with respect to executive aircraft 
        of the Air Force, of a specific aircraft type or wing during 
        the five fiscal years preceding the fiscal year in which the 
        report is submitted, such as unavailability of a specific 
        aircraft type due to block upgrades or fleetwide maintenance 
        issues.
            (5) A description of the impact of the capacity of 
        executive aircraft of the Air Force on the overall capacity of 
        the Department of Defense to meet demand for executive 
        aircraft.
            (6) The total outlays of the Department of the Air Force 
        for missions flown by executive aircraft of the Air Force, 
        after factoring in reimbursements received from Government 
        agencies supported, during the five fiscal years preceding the 
        fiscal year in which the report is submitted, disaggregated by 
        fiscal year and by account.
            (7) The projected budgets for the executive aircraft of the 
        Air Force through the future years defense program.
            (8) A narrative description of how the Air Force plans and 
        budgets for missions flown by executive aircraft.
            (9) Any other information the Secretary considers to be 
        important.
    (b) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex for the 
purposes of describing classified missions supported by the executive 
aircraft of the Air Force.

SEC. 137. PROHIBITION ON CERTAIN REDUCTIONS TO INVENTORY OF E-3 
              AIRBORNE WARNING AND CONTROL SYSTEM AIRCRAFT.

    (a) Prohibition.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
by this Act for fiscal year 2024 for the Air Force may be obligated or 
expended to retire, prepare to retire, or place in storage or in backup 
aircraft inventory any E-3 aircraft if such actions would reduce the 
total aircraft inventory for such aircraft below 16.
    (b) Exception for Plan.--If the Secretary of the Air Force submits 
to the congressional defense committees a plan for maintaining 
readiness and ensuring there is no lapse in mission capabilities, the 
prohibition under subsection (a) shall not apply to actions taken to 
reduce the total aircraft inventory for E-3 aircraft to below 16, 
beginning 30 days after the date on which the plan is so submitted.
    (c) Exception for E-7 Procurement.--If the Secretary of the Air 
Force procures enough E-7 Wedgetail aircraft to accomplish the required 
mission load, the prohibition under subsection (a) shall not apply to 
actions taken to reduce the total aircraft inventory for E-3 aircraft 
to below 16 after the date on which such E-7 Wedgetail aircraft are 
delivered.

       Subtitle E--Defense-wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters

SEC. 141. PILOT PROGRAM TO ACCELERATE THE PROCUREMENT AND FIELDING OF 
              INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGIES.

    Section 834(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2022 (Public Law 117-81; 10 U.S.C. 4061 note) is amended by adding 
at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) The Secretary of Defense may waive the priority established 
pursuant to paragraph (1) for up to two solicitations for proposals per 
fiscal year.''.

SEC. 142. REQUIREMENT TO DEVELOP AND IMPLEMENT POLICIES TO ESTABLISH 
              THE DATALINK STRATEGY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Policies Required.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop and 
        implement policies to establish the unified datalink strategy 
        of the Department of Defense (in this section referred to as 
        the ``strategy'').
            (2) Elements.--The policies required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) The designation of an organization that will 
                act as the lead coordinator of datalink activities 
                across the entire Department of Defense.
                    (B) Prioritization and coordination across services 
                of the strategy within the requirements generation 
                process of the Department.
                    (C) The use of a common standardized datalink 
                network or transport protocol that ensures 
                interoperability between independently developed 
                datalinks, regardless of physical medium used, and 
                ensures mesh routing. The Secretary of Defense shall 
                consider the use of a subset of Internet Protocol.
                    (D) A programmatic decoupling of the physical 
                method used to transmit data, the network or transport 
                protocols used in the transmission and reception of 
                data, and the applications used to process and use 
                data.
                    (E) The coordination of weapon systems executing 
                the same mission types across services of the strategy, 
                including through the use of a common set of datalink 
                waveforms. The Secretary shall evaluate the use of 
                redundant datalinks for line-of-sight and beyond-line-
                of-sight information exchange for each weapon systems 
                platform.
                    (F) Coordination between the Department and the 
                intelligence community (as defined in section 3 of the 
                National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003)) to 
                leverage any efficiencies and overlap with existing 
                datalink waveforms of the intelligence community.
                    (G) Methods to support the rapid integration of 
                common datalinks across the force.
                    (H) Support for modularity of specific datalink 
                waveforms to enable rapid integration of future 
                datalinks, including the use of software defined radios 
                compliant with modular open system architecture and 
                sensor open system architecture.
    (b) Information to Congress.--Not later than June 1, 2024, the 
Secretary of Defense shall provide to the congressional defense 
committees the following:
            (1) A briefing on the proposed policies required by 
        subsection (a)(1), with timelines for implementation.
            (2) An estimated timeline of implementations of datalinks.
            (3) A list of any additional resources and authorities 
        required to execute the strategy.
            (4) A determination of whether a common set of datalinks 
        can and should be implemented across all major weapon systems 
        within the Department of Defense.

SEC. 143. REPORT ON CONTRACT FOR CYBERSECURITY CAPABILITIES AND 
              BRIEFING.

    (a) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Chief Information Officer of the 
        Department of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a report on the decision to exercise options on an 
        existing contract to use cybersecurity capabilities to protect 
        assets and networks across the Department of Defense.
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A description of the potential effects on 
                innovation and competition among cybersecurity vendors 
                of the decision to exercise the cybersecurity options 
                on the contract described in paragraph (1).
                    (B) A description of the risks and benefits 
                associated with an integrated enterprise-wide 
                cybersecurity solution from a single vendor.
                    (C) A description of future plans of the Department 
                of Defense to recompete the acquisition of integrated 
                and interoperable cybersecurity tools and applications 
                that would allow multiple vendors to compete separately 
                and as teams.
                    (D) A copy of the analysis conducted by the 
                Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation of 
                the Department of the costs and effectiveness of the 
                cybersecurity capabilities covered by the contract 
                described in paragraph (1).
                    (E) A copy of the analysis conducted by the 
                Director of Operational Test and Evaluation of the 
                Department of the effectiveness of the cybersecurity 
                capabilities covered by the contract described in 
                paragraph (1) compared to other commercially available 
                products and vendors.
    (b) Briefing.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Chief Information Officer of the Department 
of Defense shall brief the congressional defense committees on the 
plans of the Department to ensure competition and interoperability in 
the security and identity and access management product market 
segments.

         TITLE II--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2024 
for the use of the Department of Defense for research, development, 
test, and evaluation, as specified in the funding table in section 
4201.

    Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations

SEC. 211. UPDATED GUIDANCE ON PLANNING FOR EXPORTABILITY FEATURES FOR 
              FUTURE PROGRAMS.

    (a) Program Guidance on Planning for Exportability Features.--The 
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall ensure 
that program guidance is updated to integrate planning for 
exportability features called for by section 4067 of title 10, United 
States Code, for the following activities:
            (1) Major defense acquisition programs (MDAPs) (as defined 
        in section 4201 of title 10, United States Code), which shall 
        include in the initial cost estimates for the programs a 
        requirement to capture potential exportability needs.
            (2) Middle tier acquisition (MTA) programs described in 
        section 804(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 3201 note 
        prec.), which shall include an assessment of potential 
        exportability needs prior to transition from rapid fielding or 
        prototyping.
    (b) Revision of Guidance for Program Protection Plans.--The Under 
Secretary shall revise guidance for program protection plans to 
integrate a requirement to determine exportability for the programs 
covered by such plans.

SEC. 212. SUPPORT TO THE DEFENCE INNOVATION ACCELERATOR FOR THE NORTH 
              ATLANTIC.

    (a) Authority.--To the extent and in such amounts as provided in 
appropriations Acts for the purposes set forth in this section, the 
Secretary of Defense may, acting through the Under Secretary of Defense 
for Research and Engineering, provide funds of not more than 
$15,000,000 per year to sustain the participation of the United States 
in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Defence Innovation 
Accelerator for the North Atlantic (DIANA) Initiative (in this section 
the ``Initiative'').
    (b) Notification.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 15 days after the date on 
        which the Secretary makes a decision to provide funds pursuant 
        to subsection (a), the Under Secretary shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a written notification of such 
        decision.
            (2) Contents.--Notification submitted pursuant to paragraph 
        (1) shall include the following:
                    (A) A detailed breakout of the funding provided.
                    (B) The intended purposes of such funds.
                    (C) The timeframe covered by such funds.
    (c) Strategy.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than July 1, 2024, the Under 
        Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
        a strategy for participation by the United States in the 
        Initiative.
            (2) Contents.--The strategy submitted pursuant to paragraph 
        (1) shall include the following:
                    (A) A description for how the Initiative fits into 
                the innovation ecosystem for the North Atlantic Treaty 
                Organization, as well as how it is synchronized with 
                and will interact with other science, technology, and 
                innovation activities within the Department of Defense.
                    (B) Anticipated funding profile across the future 
                years defense program (FYDP).
                    (C) Identification of key technology focus areas to 
                be addressed each year across the future years defense 
                program.
                    (D) Anticipated areas for expansion for key nodes 
                or locations for the Initiative, including how the 
                Initiative will contribute to fostering the spread of 
                innovation throughout the United States.
    (d) Annual Report.--Not later than February 1, 2024, and February 1 
of each year thereafter through 2026, the Secretary shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees an annual report for Department 
supported activities of the Initiative, including the breakdown of 
funding provided for the previous fiscal year, and key milestones or 
achievements during that timeframe.
    (e) Sunset.--The authority provided by subsection (a) shall 
terminate on September 30, 2026.

SEC. 213. MODIFICATION TO PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY TO ATTRACT 
              EXPERTS IN SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING.

    Section 4092(b) of title 10, United States code is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking ``of which not more 
        than 5 such positions may be positions of administration or 
        management of the Agency''; and
            (2) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``, including, upon 
        separation, pay the travel, transportation, and relocation 
        expenses to return to the location of origin, at the time of 
        the initial appointment, within the United States'' before the 
        period at the end.

SEC. 214. ADMINISTRATION OF THE ADVANCED SENSORS APPLICATION PROGRAM.

    Section 218 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``The Commander 
                of Naval Air Systems Command and the Director of Air 
                Warfare shall jointly serve'' and inserting ``The Under 
                Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security, 
                acting through the Director of the Air Force Office of 
                Concepts, Development, and Management Office, shall 
                serve''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``The resource 
                sponsors of the Program shall be responsible'' and 
                inserting ``The resource sponsor, in consultation with 
                the Commander of Naval Air Systems Command, shall be 
                responsible'';
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``Only the Secretary of 
        the Navy, the Under Secretary of the Navy, and the Commander of 
        Naval Air Systems Command may'' and inserting ``Only the Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security and the 
        Director of the Air Force Concepts, Development, and Management 
        Office, in consultation with the Commander of Naval Air Systems 
        Command, may''; and
            (3) in subsection (d)(3), by striking ``exercised by the 
        Commander of Naval Air Systems Command, the Secretary of the 
        Navy, or the Under Secretary of the Navy'' and inserting 
        ``exercised by the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence 
        and Security and the Director of the Air Force Concepts, 
        Development, and Management Office''.

SEC. 215. DELEGATION OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR CERTAIN RESEARCH PROGRAMS.

    Section 980(b) of title 10, United Stated Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``The Secretary''; and
            (2) by adding to the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) The Secretary may delegate the authority provided by 
paragraph (1) to the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
Engineering.''.

SEC. 216. PROGRAM OF STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR MICROELECTRONICS.

    (a) Program Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish, 
not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, a 
program within the National Security Agency to develop and continuously 
update, as the Secretary determines necessary, standards, commercial 
best practices, and requirements for the design, manufacture, 
packaging, test, and distribution of microelectronics acquired by the 
Department of Defense to provide acceptable levels of confidentiality, 
integrity, and availability for Department commercial-off-the-shelf 
(COTS) microelectronics, field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), and 
custom integrated circuits (CICs).
    (b) Advice and Assessment.--The Secretary shall ensure that the 
program established pursuant to subsection (a) is advised and assessed 
by the Government-Industry-Academia Working Group on Microelectronics 
established under section 220 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263).
    (c) Requirements.--The program established by subsection (a) shall 
develop--
            (1) evidence-based assurance processes and techniques that 
        sustain, build on, automate, and scale up the results and 
        accomplishments of the Rapid Assured Microelectronics 
        Prototypes (RAMP), RAMP-Commercial (RAMP-C), and State-of-the-
        Art Heterogeneous Integrated Packaging (SHIP) programs to 
        enhance the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of 
        microelectronics while minimizing costs and impacts to 
        commercial manufacturing practices;
            (2) validation methods for such processes and techniques, 
        in coordination with the developmental and operational test and 
        evaluation community, as the Secretary determines necessary;
            (3) threat models that comprehensively characterize the 
        threat to microelectronics confidentiality, integrity, and 
        availability across the entire supply chain, and the design, 
        production, packaging, and deployment cycle to support risk 
        management and risk mitigation, based on the principle of 
        reducing risk to as low a level as reasonably practicable, 
        including--
                    (A) comparative risk assessments; and
                    (B) balanced and practical investments in assurance 
                based on risks and returns;
            (4) levels of assurance and associated requirements for the 
        production and acquisition of commercial-off-the-shelf 
        integrated circuits, integrated circuits subject to 
        International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) under 
        subchapter M of chapter I of title 22, Code of Federal 
        Regulations, or successor regulations, and classified 
        integrated circuits using commercial foundry manufacturing 
        process flows;
            (5) guides for Federal Government program evaluators, 
        program offices, and industry to meet microelectronics 
        assurance requirements; and
            (6) guidance for the creation of a government 
        organizational structure and plan to support the acquisition of 
        fit-for-purpose microelectronics, including the role of the 
        Defense Microelectronics Activity, the Crane Division of the 
        Naval Surface Warfare Center, and the Joint Federated Assurance 
        Center.
    (d) Microelectronics Assurance Standard.--The program established 
pursuant to subsection (a) shall establish a Department 
microelectronics assurance standard that includes an overarching 
assurance framework as well as the guides developed under subsection 
(c)(5), for commercial-off-the-shelf integrated circuits, integrated 
circuits subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations under 
subchapter M of chapter I of title 22, Code of Federal Regulations, or 
successor regulations, and classified microelectronics developed under 
subsection (c)(4).
    (e) Microelectronics Assurance Executive Agent.--The Secretary 
shall designate one individual from a military department as the 
Microelectronics Assurance Executive Agent to assist Federal Government 
program offices in acquiring fit-for-purpose microelectronics.
    (f) Management of RAMP and SHIP Programs.--Effective on the date of 
the establishment of the program required by subsection (a), such 
program shall assume management of the Rapid Assured Microelectronics 
Prototypes, Rapid Assured Microelectronics Prototypes-Commercial (RAMP-
C), and State-of-the-Art Heterogeneous Integrated Packaging programs 
that were in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this 
Act and executed by the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
Engineering.
    (g) Oversight.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
Engineering shall provide oversight of the planning and execution of 
the program required by subsection (a).
    (h) Requirements for Contracting for Application-specific 
Integrated Circuits.--The Secretary shall ensure that, for contracts 
for application-specific integrated circuits designed by defense 
industrial base contractors--
            (1) the use of evidence-based assurance processes and 
        techniques are included in the contract data requirements list;
            (2) commercial best industry practices for confidentiality, 
        integrity, and availability are used;
            (3) a library of certified third-party intellectual 
        property is established for reuse, including reuse of 
        transistor layouts, cells, and macrocells;
            (4) legal mechanisms are in place for data collection and 
        sharing; and
            (5) automation technology is adopted to achieve efficiency.

SEC. 217. CLARIFYING ROLE OF PARTNERSHIP INTERMEDIARIES TO PROMOTE 
              DEFENSE RESEARCH AND EDUCATION.

    Section 4124(f)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``that assists'' and inserting the 
        following: ``that--
            ``(A) assists'';
            (2) in subparagraph (A), as designated by paragraph (1), by 
        striking the period at the end and inserting a semicolon; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
            ``(B) facilitates technology transfer from industry or 
        academic institutions to the Center; or
            ``(C) assists and facilitates workforce development in 
        critical technology areas and technology transition to fulfill 
        unmet needs of a Center.''.

SEC. 218. COMPETITION FOR TECHNOLOGY THAT DETECTS AND WATERMARKS THE 
              USE OF GENERATIVE ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish 
        and carry out a prize competition under section 4025 of title 
        10, United States Code, to evaluate technology, including 
        applications, tools, and models, for the detection and 
        watermarking of generative artificial intelligence (AI)--
                    (A) to facilitate the research, development, 
                testing, evaluation, and competition of secure 
                generative artificial intelligence detection and 
                watermark technologies that can support each Secretary 
                of a military department and the commanders of 
                combatant commands to support warfighting requirements; 
                and
                    (B) to transition such technologies, including 
                technologies developed from pilot programs, prototype 
                projects, or other research and development programs, 
                from the prototyping phase to production.
            (2) Participation.--The participants in the competition 
        carried out pursuant to paragraph (1) may include Federally-
        funded research and development centers (FFRDCs), the private 
        sector, the defense industrial base, academia, government 
        agencies, and such other participants as the Secretary 
        considers appropriate.
            (3) Commencement.--The competition will begin within 270 
        days of passage of this Act.
            (4) Designation.--The competition established and carried 
        out pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be known as the 
        ``Generative AI Detection and Watermark Competition''.
    (b) Administration.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Research 
and Engineering shall administer the competition required by subsection 
(a).
    (c) Framework.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall provide the congressional 
defense committees a briefing on the framework the Secretary will use 
to carry out the competition required by subsection (a).
    (d) Annual Reports.--Not later than October 1 of each year until 
the termination of the competition established and carried out under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on the results of the competition.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``detection'' means a technology that can 
        positively identify the presence of generative artificial 
        intelligence in digital content.
            (2) The term ``watermarking'' means embedding a piece of 
        data onto detected artificial intelligence generated digital 
        content, conveying attribution to the source generation.
    (f) Termination.--The competition established and carried out 
pursuant to subsection (a) shall terminate on December 31, 2025.

             Subtitle C--Plans, Reports, and Other Matters

SEC. 221. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PRIZE COMPETITIONS FOR BUSINESS SYSTEMS 
              MODERNIZATION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than September 30, 2028, the Secretary 
of Defense and the Secretaries of the military departments shall 
complete one or more prize competitions under section 4025 of title 10, 
United States Code, in order to support the business systems 
modernization goals of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Scope.--
            (1) In general.--Each prize competition carried out under 
        subsection (a) shall be structured to complement, and to the 
        degree practicable, accelerate delivery or expand functionality 
        of business systems capabilities being pursued by the affected 
        Secretary, either currently in operation, in development, or 
        for broad classes of systems covered by the business enterprise 
        architecture required by section 2222(e) of title 10, United 
        States Code.
            (2) Areas for consideration.--In carrying out subsection 
        (a), the Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries of the 
        military departments shall each consider the following:
                    (A) Integration of artificial intelligence or 
                machine learning capabilities.
                    (B) Data analytics or business intelligence, or 
                related visualization capability.
                    (C) Automated updating of business architectures, 
                business systems integration, or documentation related 
                to existing systems or manuals.
                    (D) Improvements to interfaces or processes for 
                interacting with other non-Department of Defense 
                business systems.
                    (E) Updates or replacements for legacy business 
                systems to improve operational effectiveness and 
                efficiency, such as the Mechanization of Contract 
                Administration Services (MOCAS).
                    (F) Contract writing systems or expanded capability 
                that could be integrated into existing systems.
                    (G) Pay and personnel systems, or expanded 
                capability, that could be integrated into existing 
                systems.
                    (H) Other finance and accounting systems, or 
                expanded capability, that could be integrated into 
                existing systems.
                    (I) Systems supporting industrial base and supply 
                chain visibility, analytics, and management.

SEC. 222. UPDATE TO PLANS AND STRATEGIES FOR ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation 
with the Deputy Secretary of Defense--
            (1) establish and document procedures, including timelines, 
        for the periodic review of the 2018 Department of Defense 
        Artificial Intelligence Strategy, or any successor strategy, 
        and associated annexes of the military departments to assess 
        the implementation of the strategy and whether any revision is 
        necessary;
            (2) issue Department of Defense-wide guidance that defines 
        outcomes of near-term and long-term strategies and plans 
        relating to--
                    (A) the adoption of artificial intelligence;
                    (B) adoption and enforcement of policies on the 
                ethical use of artificial intelligence systems; and
                    (C) the identification and mitigation of bias in 
                artificial intelligence algorithms;
            (3) issue Department-wide guidance regarding--
                    (A) methods to monitor accountability for 
                artificial intelligence-related activity, including 
                artificial intelligence performance indicators and 
                metrics;
                    (B) means to enforce and update ethics policy and 
                guidelines across all adopted artificial intelligence 
                systems; and
                    (C) means to identify, monitor, and mitigate bias 
                in artificial intelligence algorithms;
            (4) develop a strategic plan for the development, use, and 
        cybersecurity of generative artificial intelligence, including 
        a policy for use of, and defense against adversarial use of, 
        generative artificial intelligence;
            (5) assess technical workforce needs across the future 
        years defense plan to support the continued development of 
        artificial intelligence capabilities, including recruitment and 
        retention policies and programs;
            (6) assess the availability and adequacy of the basic 
        artificial intelligence training and education curricula 
        available to the broader Department civilian workforce and 
        military personnel to promote artificial intelligence literacy 
        to the nontechnical workforce and senior leadership with 
        responsibilities adjacent to artificial intelligence technical 
        development;
            (7) develop and issue a timeline and guidance for the Chief 
        Digital and Artificial Intelligence Officer of the Department 
        and the Secretaries of the military departments to establish a 
        common terminology for artificial intelligence-related 
        activities;
            (8) develop and implement a plan to protect and secure the 
        integrity, availability, and privacy of artificial intelligence 
        systems and models, including large language models, data 
        libraries, data repositories, and algorithms, in training, 
        development, and production environments;
            (9) develop and implement a plan--
                    (A) to identify commercially available and relevant 
                large language models; and
                    (B) to make those available, as appropriate, on 
                classified networks;
            (10) develop a plan to defend the people, organizations, 
        and systems of the Department against adversarial artificial 
        intelligence, including identification of organizations within 
        the Department that could provide red teams capabilities for 
        operational and developmental needs;
            (11) develop and implement a policy for use by contracting 
        officials to protect the intellectual property of commercial 
        entities that provide their artificial intelligence algorithms 
        to a Department repository established pursuant to section 232 
        of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 
        (Public Law 117-81; 10 U.S.C. 4001 note), including policy for 
        how to address data rights in situations in which government 
        and commercial intellectual property may be mixed when such 
        artificial intelligence algorithms are deployed in an 
        operational environment;
            (12) issue guidance and directives for how the Chief 
        Digital and Artificial Intelligence Officer of the Department 
        will exercise authority to access, control, and maintain, on 
        behalf of the Secretary, data collected, acquired, accessed, or 
        utilized by Department components consistent with section 1513 
        of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263; 10 U.S.C. 4001 note); and
            (13) clarify guidance on the instances for and role of 
        human intervention and oversight in the exercise of artificial 
        intelligence algorithms for use in the generation of offensive 
        or lethal courses of action for tactical operations.
    (b) Due Date for Procedures, Guidance, Plans, Assessment, and 
Timelines.--
            (1) Due date.--The Secretary shall develop the procedures, 
        guidance, plans, assessment, and timelines required under 
        subsection (a) not later than 120 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act.
            (2) Briefing.--Not later than 150 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall provide to the 
        congressional defense committees a briefing on the procedures, 
        guidance, plans, assessment, and timelines established, issued, 
        carried out, or developed under subsection (a).

SEC. 223. WESTERN REGIONAL RANGE COMPLEX DEMONSTRATION.

    (a) Demonstration Required.--The Secretary shall carry out a 
demonstration of a joint multi-domain nonkinetic testing and training 
environment across military departments by interconnecting existing 
ranges and training sites in the western States to improve joint multi-
domain nonkinetic training and further testing, research, and 
development.
    (b) Use of Existing Ranges and Capabilities.--The demonstration 
carried out pursuant to subsection (a) shall use existing ranges and 
range capability, unless capability gaps are identified in the process 
of planning specific demonstration activities.
    (c) Activities.--The demonstration carried out pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall include the following:
            (1) Electromagnetic spectrum operations.
            (2) Electromagnetic warfare.
            (3) Operations in the information environment.
            (4) Joint All Domain Command and Control (JADC2).
            (5) Information warfare, including the following:
                    (A) Intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance.
                    (B) Offensive and defense cyber operations.
                    (C) Electromagnetic warfare.
                    (D) Space operations.
                    (E) Psychological operations.
                    (F) Public affairs.
                    (G) Weather operations.
    (d) Timeline for Completion of Initial Demonstration.--In carrying 
out subsection (a), the Secretary shall seek to complete an initial 
demonstration, interconnecting two or more ranges or testing sites of 
two or more military departments in the western States, subject to 
availability of appropriations, not later than one year after the date 
of the enactment of this Act.
    (e) Briefing.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall provide the congressional 
defense committees a briefing on--
            (1) a phased implementation plan and design to connect 
        ranges and testing sites in the western States, including the 
        initial demonstration required by subsection (d);
            (2) how the design architecture of the plan is in alignment 
        with recommendations of the 2020 Department of Defense 
        Electromagnetic Spectrum Superiority Strategy; and
            (3) how the design architecture will support high-
        periodicity training, testing, research, and development.
    (f) Definition.--In this section:
            (1) Information environment.--The term ``information 
        environment'' means the aggregate of individuals, 
        organizations, and systems that collect, process, and 
        disseminate, or act on information.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Defense.
    (g) Termination.--This section shall terminate on September 30, 
2028.

SEC. 224. REPORT ON FEASIBILITY AND ADVISABILITY OF ESTABLISHING A 
              QUANTUM COMPUTING INNOVATION CENTER.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in coordination 
with the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering and 
the Chief Digital and Artificial Intelligence Officer, submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the feasibility and 
advisability of establishing a quantum computing innovation center 
within the Department of Defense--
            (1) to identify and pursue the development of quantum 
        computing applications to enhance military operations;
            (2) to harness the talent and skills of physicists and 
        scientists within the Department to develop quantum computing 
        applications; and
            (3) to coordinate and synchronize quantum computing 
        research across the Department.
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) An assessment of the ongoing activities of the 
        Department that are part of the National Quantum Initiative.
            (2) An evaluation of the plans of the Department to develop 
        quantum computing, sensing, and networking applications.
            (3) The level of funding and resources invested by the 
        Department to enable quantum military applications.
            (4) Any established metrics or performance indicators to 
        track the progress of quantum technology developments.
            (5) The extent to which the Department is partnering with 
        commercial entities engaging in quantum research and 
        development.
            (6) An evaluation of any plans establishing how commercial 
        advances in quantum technology can be leveraged for military 
        operations.
            (7) An assessment of the maturity of United States 
        competitor efforts to develop quantum applications for 
        adversarial use.
            (8) An assessment of any processes to harmonize or 
        coordinate activities across the Department to develop quantum 
        computing applications.
            (9) An evaluation of any Department-issued policy guidance 
        regarding quantum computing applications.
            (10) An evaluation of any Department plans to defend 
        against adversarial use of quantum computing applications.

SEC. 225. BRIEFING ON THE IMPEDIMENTS TO THE TRANSITION OF THE SEMANTIC 
              FORENSICS PROGRAM TO OPERATIONAL USE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
Engineering shall, in consultation with the Office of General Counsel 
of the Department of Defense and the Director of the Defense Advanced 
Research Projects Agency, provide to the Committee on Armed Services of 
the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
Representatives a briefing on the impediments to the transition of the 
Semantic Forensics program to operational use.
    (b) Elements.--The briefing provided pursuant to subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
            (1) Identification of policy and legal challenges 
        associated with the transition described in subsection (a) and 
        implementation of the Semantic Forensics program, including 
        with respect to the use and operational testing of publicly 
        available information.
            (2) Identification of other Federal agencies with legal 
        authorities that may be able to resolve the challenges 
        identified pursuant to paragraph (1).
            (3) Recommendations for legislative or administrative 
        action to mitigate the challenges identified pursuant to 
        paragraph (1).

SEC. 226. ANNUAL REPORT ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE HYPERSONIC CAPABILITY 
              FUNDING AND INVESTMENT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than March 1 of fiscal year 2024 and 
March 1 of each of fiscal year thereafter through 2030, the Secretary 
of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees an 
annual report on funding and investments of the Department of Defense 
relating to hypersonic capabilities, including with respect to 
procurement, research, development, operations, and maintenance of 
offensive and defensive hypersonic weapons.
    (b) Requirements.--Each report submitted pursuant to subsection (a) 
shall--
            (1) include cost data on the vehicles, testing, hypersonic 
        sensors, command and control architectures, infrastructure, 
        testing infrastructure, software, workforce, training, ranges, 
        integration costs, and such other items as the Secretary 
        considers appropriate;
            (2) disaggregate information reported by offensive and 
        defensive hypersonic capabilities;
            (3) for research relating to hypersonic capabilities, 
        include the program element and the name of the entity that is 
        conducting the research, a description of the purpose of the 
        research, and any Uniform Resource Locators to weapon programs 
        associated with the research; and
            (4) to the degree applicable, include all associated 
        hypersonic program elements and line items.
    (c) Form.--Each report submitted pursuant to subsection (a) shall 
be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 227. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR TRAVEL FOR OFFICE OF 
              UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR PERSONNEL AND READINESS 
              PENDING A PLAN FOR MODERNIZING DEFENSE TRAVEL SYSTEM.

    (a) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act for fiscal year 2024 for travel for the office of the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, not more than 85 
percent may be obligated or expended until the Secretary of Defense 
submits to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives supporting 
justification material underpinning the decision to cease current 
modernization efforts for the Defense Travel System (DTS), and a plan 
going forward for modernizing or replacing such system
    (b) Contents.--The justification material and plan described in 
subsection (a) shall include the following:
            (1) The documentation from the Milestone Decision Authority 
        (MDA) justifying cancellation of the current modernization 
        contract, including--
                    (A) specific metrics used to make that 
                determination;
                    (B) a timeline for decisions leading to the final 
                cancellation;
                    (C) notification from the military departments when 
                they were unable to make the desired usage rates using 
                the current modernization prototype;
                    (D) identification of system requirements for audit 
                readiness, as well as interface needs for other 
                enterprise resource planning systems, in the current 
                modernization contract; and
                    (E) alternatives considered prior to cancellation.
            (2) An assessment by the Cost Assessment of Program 
        Evaluation office comparing--
                    (A) costs of continuing with the current 
                modernization prototype across the future years defense 
                plan (FYDP); and
                    (B) costs of sustainment of the Defense Travel 
                System across the future years defense plan, factoring 
                potential costs of restarting modernization efforts.
            (3) A description from the Milestone Decision Authority on 
        what the current plan is for modernizing the Defense Travel 
        System, including timelines and potential costs.

SEC. 228. ANNUAL REPORT ON UNFUNDED PRIORITIES FOR RESEARCH, 
              DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION ACTIVITIES.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 9 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 222d the following new section:
``Sec. 222e. Unfunded priorities for research, development, test, and 
              evaluation activities
    ``(a) Annual Report.--Not later than 10 days after the date on 
which the budget of the President for a fiscal year is submitted to 
Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, the Secretary of Defense 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
unfunded priorities of the Department of Defense-wide research, 
development, test, and evaluation activities.
    ``(b) Contents.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in subsection (c), 
        each report submitted under subsection (a) shall specify, for 
        each unfunded priority covered by such report, the following:
                    ``(A) A summary description of such priority, 
                including the objectives to be achieved if such 
                priority is funded (whether in whole or in part).
                    ``(B) The additional amount of funds recommended in 
                connection with the objectives under subparagraph (A).
                    ``(C) Account information with respect to such 
                priority, including the following (as applicable):
                            ``(i) Line Item Number (LIN) for applicable 
                        procurement accounts.
                            ``(ii) Program Element (PE) number for 
                        applicable research, development, test, and 
                        evaluation accounts.
            ``(2) Prioritization of priorities.--The report under 
        subsection (a) shall present the unfunded priorities covered by 
        such report in order of urgency of priority.
    ``(c) Exclusion of Priorities Covered in Other Reports.--The report 
submitted under subsection (a) shall not include unfunded priorities or 
requirements covered in reports submitted under--
            ``(1) section 222a or 222b; or
            ``(2) section 2806 of the National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 10 U.S.C. 222a 
        note).
    ``(d) Form.--Each report submitted pursuant to subsection (a) shall 
be submitted in classified format, but the Secretary may also submit an 
unclassified version as the Secretary considers appropriate.
    ``(e) Unfunded Priority Defined.--In this section, the term 
`unfunded priority', in the case of a fiscal year, means a program, 
activity, or mission requirement, that--
            ``(1) is not funded in the budget of the President for the 
        fiscal year as submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 
        of title 31; and
            ``(2) would have been recommended for funding through that 
        budget if--
                    ``(A) additional resources had been available for 
                the budget to fund the program, activity, or mission 
                requirement; or
                    ``(B) the program, activity, or mission requirement 
                has emerged since the budget was formulated.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 9 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating 
to section 222d the following new item:

``222e. Annual report on unfunded priorities for research, development, 
                            test, and evaluation activities.''.

SEC. 229. ESTABLISHMENT OF TECHNOLOGY TRANSITION PROGRAM FOR STRATEGIC 
              NUCLEAR DETERRENCE.

    (a) In General.--The Commander of Air Force Global Strike Command 
may, through the use of a partnership intermediary, establish a 
program--
            (1) to carry out technology transition, digital engineering 
        projects, and other innovation activities supporting the Air 
        Force nuclear enterprise; and
            (2) to discover capabilities that have the potential to 
        generate life-cycle cost savings and provide data-driven 
        approaches to resource allocation.
    (b) Termination.--The program established under subsection (a) 
shall terminate on September 30, 2029.
    (c) Partnership Intermediary Defined.--The term ``partnership 
intermediary'' has the meaning given the term in section 23(c) of the 
Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3715(c)).

SEC. 230. REVIEW OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE INVESTMENT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall--
            (1) review the current investment into applications of 
        artificial intelligence to the platforms, processes, and 
        operations of the Department of Defense; and
            (2) categorize the types of artificial intelligence 
        investments by categories including but not limited to the 
        following:
                    (A) Automation.
                    (B) Machine learning.
                    (C) Autonomy.
                    (D) Robotics.
                    (E) Deep learning and neural network.
                    (F) Natural language processing.
    (b) Report to Congress.--Not later than 120 days after the 
completion of the review and categorization required by subsection (a), 
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on--
            (1) the findings of the Secretary with respect to the 
        review and any action taken or proposed to be taken by the 
        Secretary to address such findings; and
            (2) an evaluation of how the findings of the Secretary 
        align with stated strategies of the Department of Defense with 
        regard to artificial intelligence and performance objectives 
        established in the Department of Defense Data, Analytics, and 
        Artificial Intelligence Adoption Strategy.

                  TITLE III--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 301. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2024 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
operation and maintenance, as specified in the funding table in section 
4301.

                   Subtitle B--Energy and Environment

SEC. 311. REQUIREMENT FOR APPROVAL BY UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR 
              ACQUISITION AND SUSTAINMENT OF ANY WAIVER FOR A SYSTEM 
              THAT DOES NOT MEET FUEL EFFICIENCY KEY PERFORMANCE 
              PARAMETER.

    Section 332(b) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 10 U.S.C. 2911 note) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Secretary of Defense'' and inserting 
        the following:
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(2) Waiver of fuel efficiency key performance 
        parameter.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The fuel efficiency key 
                performance parameter implemented under paragraph (1) 
                may be waived for a system only if such waiver is 
                approved by the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Acquisition and Sustainment.
                    ``(B) Nondelegation.--The waiver authority under 
                subparagraph (A) may not be delegated.''.

SEC. 312. IMPROVEMENT AND CODIFICATION OF SENTINEL LANDSCAPES 
              PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM AUTHORITY.

    (a) Codification of Existing Statute.--Section 317 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 10 
U.S.C. 2684a note) is amended--
            (1) by transferring such section to appear after section 
        2692 of title 10, United States Code;
            (2) by redesignating such section as section 2693; and
            (3) by amending the section heading to read as follows:
``Sec. 2693. Sentinel Landscapes Partnership''.
    (b) Improvements to Sentinel Landscapes Partnership Program.--
Section 2693 of title 10, United States Code, as transferred and 
redesignated by subsection (a), is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``and the Secretary of 
        the Interior'' and inserting ``, the Secretary of the Interior, 
        and the heads of other Federal departments and agencies that 
        elect to become full partners'';
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``and the Secretary of 
        the Interior, may, as the Secretaries'' and inserting ``the 
        Secretary of the Interior, and the heads of other Federal 
        departments and agencies that elect to become full partners 
        may, as they'';
            (3) by amending subsection (c) to read as follows:
    ``(c) Coordination of Activities.--The Secretaries and the heads of 
Federal departments and agencies, in carrying out this section, may 
coordinate actions between their departments and agencies and with 
other Federal, State, interstate, and local agencies, Indian Tribes, 
and private entities to more efficiently work together for the mutual 
benefit of conservation, resilience, working lands, and national 
defense, and to encourage owners and managers of land to engage in 
voluntary land management, resilience, and conservation activities that 
contribute to the sustainment of military installations, State-owned 
National Guard installations, and associated airspace.'';
            (4) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) by striking the first sentence and inserting 
                ``The Secretaries and the heads of Federal departments 
                and agencies, in carrying out this section, may give to 
                any eligible owner or manager of land within a 
                designated sentinel landscape priority consideration 
                for participation in any easement, grant, or assistance 
                programs administered by that Secretary or head.''; and
                    (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``eligible 
                landowner or agricultural producer'' and inserting 
                ``eligible owner or manager of land''; and
            (5) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g);
            (6) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
        subsection (f):
    ``(f) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
construed to require an owner or manager of land, including a private 
landowner or agricultural producer, to participate in any land 
management, resilience, or conservation activity under this section.'';
            (7) in subsection (g), as redesigned by paragraph (5)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking `` section 670(1) 
                of title 16, United States Code'' and inserting `` 
                section 100(1) of the Sikes Act (16 U.S.C. 670(1))'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``section 670(3) 
                of title 16, United States Code'' and inserting 
                ``section 100(3) of the Sikes Act (16 U.S.C. 670(3))''; 
                and
                    (C) in paragraph (3), by amending subparagraph (B) 
                to read as follows:
                    ``(B) the publicly and privately owned lands that 
                serve to protect and support the rural economy, the 
                natural environment, outdoor recreation, and the 
                national defense missions of a military installation or 
                State-owned National Guard installation.''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 159 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 2692 the following new item:

``2693. Sentinel Landscapes Partnership.''.

SEC. 313. MODIFICATION OF DEFINITION OF SUSTAINABLE AVIATION FUEL FOR 
              PURPOSE OF PILOT PROGRAM ON USE OF SUCH FUEL.

    Section 324(g) of the James M. Inhofe National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (2);
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (1) as paragraph (2);
            (3) by inserting before paragraph (2), as redesignated by 
        paragraph (2) of this section, the following new paragraph:
            ``(1) The term `applicable material' means--
                    ``(A) monoglycerides, diglycerides, and 
                triglycerides;
                    ``(B) free fatty acids; or
                    ``(C) fatty acid esters.''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
            ``(3) The term `biomass' has the meaning given that term in 
        section 45K(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
            ``(4) The term `lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions 
        reduction percentage' means, with respect to any sustainable 
        aviation fuel, the percentage reduction in lifecycle greenhouse 
        gas emissions achieved by such fuel as compared with petroleum-
        based aviation fuel, as determined in accordance with--
                    ``(A) the most recent Carbon Offsetting and 
                Reduction Scheme for International Aviation that has 
                been adopted, as of the date of the enactment of the 
                National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
                2024, by the International Civil Aviation Organization 
                with the agreement of the United States; or
                    ``(B) the most recent determinations, as of the 
                date of the enactment of the National Defense 
                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024, under the 
                Greenhouse gases, Regulated Emissions, and Energy use 
                in Transportation (GREET) model developed by Argonne 
                National Laboratory.
            ``(5) The term `sustainable aviation fuel' means liquid 
        fuel, the portion of which is not kerosene, that--
                    ``(A) meets the requirements of--
                            ``(i) ASTM International Standard D7566; or
                            ``(ii) the Fischer Tropsch provisions of 
                        ASTM International Standard D1655, Annex A1;
                    ``(B) is not derived from coprocessing an 
                applicable material (or materials derived from an 
                applicable material) with a feedstock that is not 
                biomass;
                    ``(C) is not derived from palm fatty acid 
                distillates or petroleum; and
                    ``(D) has been certified pursuant to a scheme or 
                model under paragraph (4) as having a lifecycle 
                greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage of not 
                less than 50 percent.''.

SEC. 314. PAYMENT TO ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY OF STIPULATED 
              PENALTIES IN CONNECTION WITH NAVAL AIR STATION MOFFETT 
              FIELD, CALIFORNIA.

    (a) Authority to Transfer Funds.--
            (1) Transfer amount.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary of the Navy may 
                transfer an amount not to exceed $438,250 to the 
                Hazardous Substance Superfund established under section 
                9507 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, in 
                accordance with section 2703(f) of title 10, United 
                States Code.
                    (B) Inapplicability of limitation.--Any transfer 
                under subparagraph (A) shall be made without regard to 
                section 2215 of title 10, United States Code.
            (2) Source of funds.--Any transfer under paragraph (1)(A) 
        shall be made using funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
        Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2024 for the 
        Department of Defense Base Closure Account established under 
        section 2906(a) of the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act 
        of 1990 (Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note).
    (b) Purpose of Transfer.--Any transfer under subsection (a)(1)(A) 
shall be for the purpose of satisfying a stipulated penalty assessed by 
the Environmental Protection Agency on May 4, 2018, regarding former 
Naval Air Station, Moffett Field, California, under the Federal 
Facility Agreement for Naval Air Station, Moffett Field, which was 
entered into between the Navy and the Environmental Protection Agency 
in 1990 pursuant to section 120 of the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9620).
    (c) Acceptance of Payment.--If the Secretary of the Navy makes a 
transfer under subsection (a)(1)(A), the Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency shall accept the amount transferred as 
payment in full of the penalty described in subsection (b).

SEC. 315. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR COMMUNITIES AND INDIVIDUALS 
              POTENTIALLY AFFECTED BY RELEASES AT CURRENT AND FORMER 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FACILITIES.

    (a) Technical Assistance for Navigation of Response Actions.--
            (1) In general.--Beginning not later than 180 days after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, and subject to such 
        amounts as are provided in appropriations Acts, the Secretary 
        of Defense, acting through the Director of the Office of Local 
        Defense Community Cooperation, shall furnish technical 
        assistance services described in paragraph (3) through the 
        Technical Assistance for Public Participation (TAPP) Program of 
        the Department of Defense to communities, or individuals who 
        are members thereof, that have been affected by a release of a 
        pollutant affirmatively determined to have originated from a 
        facility under the jurisdiction of, or formerly used by or 
        under the jurisdiction of, the Department.
            (2) Implementation.--The Secretary, acting through the 
        Director of the Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation, 
        may furnish technical assistance services pursuant to paragraph 
        (1) through a Federal interagency agreement, a private service 
        provider, or a cooperative agreement entered into with a 
        nonprofit organization.
            (3) Services provided.--The technical assistance services 
        described in this paragraph are services to improve public 
        participation in, or assist in the navigation of, environmental 
        response efforts, including--
                    (A) the provision of advice and guidance to a 
                community or individual specified in paragraph (1) 
                regarding additional technical assistance with respect 
                to which such community or individual may be eligible 
                (including pursuant to subsection (b));
                    (B) the interpretation of site-related documents;
                    (C) the interpretation of health-related 
                information;
                    (D) assistance with the preparation of public 
                comments; and
                    (E) the development of outreach materials to 
                improve public participation.
    (b) Grants for Technical Assistance.--
            (1) Authority.--Beginning not later than 180 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, and subject to such amounts 
        as are provided in appropriations Acts, the Secretary of 
        Defense, acting through the Director of the Office of Local 
        Defense Community Cooperation, shall administer a grant program 
        under which the Director may award a grant to a community, or 
        individuals who are members thereof, that have been affected by 
        a release of a pollutant affirmatively determined to have 
        originated from a facility under the jurisdiction of, or 
        formerly used by or under the jurisdiction of, the Department 
        of Defense.
            (2) Use of amounts.--Funds provided under a grant awarded 
        pursuant to paragraph (1) in connection with a release of a 
        pollutant at a facility may be used by the grant recipient only 
        to obtain technical assistance and services for public 
        participation in various stages of the processes of response, 
        remediation, and removal actions at the facility, including--
                    (A) interpreting the nature of the release, 
                including monitoring and testing plans and reports 
                associated with site assessment and characterization at 
                the facility;
                    (B) interpreting documents, plans, proposed 
                actions, and final decisions related to--
                            (i) an interim remedial action;
                            (ii) a remedial investigation or 
                        feasibility study;
                            (iii) a record of decision;
                            (iv) a remedial design;
                            (v) the selection and construction of 
                        remedial action;
                            (vi) operation and maintenance; and
                            (vii) a five-year review at the facility.
                    (C) a removal action at such facility; and
                    (D) services specified under subsection (a)(3).
    (c) Prohibition on Use of Amounts.--None of the amounts made 
available under this section may be used for the purpose of 
conducting--
            (1) lobbying activities; or
            (2) legal challenges of final decisions of the Department 
        of Defense.

Subtitle C--Treatment of Perfluoroalkyl Substances and Polyfluoroalkyl 
                               Substances

SEC. 321. TREATMENT OF CERTAIN MATERIALS CONTAMINATED WITH 
              PERFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCES OR POLYFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may treat covered 
materials, including soils that have been contaminated with PFAS, until 
the date on which the Secretary adopts the final rule required under 
section 343(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2022 (Public Law 117-81; 10 U.S.C. 2701 note) if the treatment of 
such materials occurs through the use of remediation or disposal 
technology approved by the relevant Federal regulatory agency.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``covered material'' 
and ``PFAS'' have the meanings given those terms in section 343(e) of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 
117-81; 10 U.S.C. 2701 note).

SEC. 322. INCREASE OF TRANSFER AUTHORITY FOR FUNDING OF STUDY AND 
              ASSESSMENT ON HEALTH IMPLICATIONS OF PER- AND 
              POLYFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCES CONTAMINATION IN DRINKING 
              WATER BY AGENCY FOR TOXIC SUBSTANCES AND DISEASE 
              REGISTRY.

    Section 316(a)(2)(B) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1350), as amended by 
section 315(a) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1713), section 321 
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public 
Law 116-92; 133 Stat. 1307), section 337 of the William M. (Mac) 
Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 
(Public Law 116-283; 134 Stat. 3533), section 342 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117-81; 135 
Stat. 1643), and section 342 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263), is further 
amended by adding at the end the following new clause:
                    ``(iv) Without regard to section 2215 of title 10, 
                United States Code, the Secretary of Defense may 
                transfer not more than $5,000,000 during fiscal year 
                2024 to the Secretary of Health and Human Services to 
                pay for the study and assessment required by this 
                section.''.

SEC. 323. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION 
              PROJECTS AT NATIONAL GUARD FACILITIES.

    (a) Clarification of Definition of National Guard Facilities.--
Paragraph (4) of section 2700 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``State-owned'';
            (2) by striking ``owned and operated by a State when such 
        land is''; and
            (3) by striking ``even though such land is not under the 
        jurisdiction of the Department of Defense.'' and inserting 
        ``without regard to--''
                    ``(A) the owner or operator of the facility; or
                    ``(B) whether the facility is under the 
                jurisdiction of the Department of Defense or a military 
                department.''.
    (b) Inclusion Under Defense Environmental Restoration Program.--
Section 2701(a)(1) of such title is amended by striking ``State-
owned''.
    (c) Response Actions at National Guard Facilities.--Section 
2701(c)(1)(D) of such title is amended by striking ``State-owned''.
    (d) Services of Other Entities.--Section 2701(d)(1) of such title 
is amended, in the second sentence, by inserting ``or at a National 
Guard facility'' before the period at the end.
    (e) Environmental Restoration Accounts.--Section 2703(g)(1) of such 
title is amended by inserting ``, a National Guard facility,'' after 
``Department of Defense''.
    (f) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Repeal.--Section 2707 of such title is amended by 
        striking subsection (e).
            (2) Reference update.--Section 345(f)(1) of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117-
        81; 10 U.S.C. 2715 note) is amended by striking ``facility 
        where military activities are conducted by the National Guard 
        of a State pursuant to section 2707(e) of title 10, United 
        States Code'' and inserting ``National Guard facility, as such 
        term is defined in section 2700 of title 10, United States 
        Code''.

SEC. 324. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF TRAVEL FUNDS UNTIL SUBMITTAL OF 
              PLAN FOR RESTORING DATA SHARING ON TESTING OF WATER FOR 
              PERFLUOROALKYL OR POLYFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCES.

    (a) In General.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act for operation and maintenance, defense-wide, for travel for the 
Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
Sustainment, not more than 85 percent may be obligated or expended 
until the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment 
submits to the congressional defense committees a plan to restore data 
sharing pertaining to the testing of water for perfluoroalkyl or 
polyfluoroalkyl substances, as required under section 345 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 
117-81; 10 U.S.C. 2715 note), which shall include the following:
            (1) A plan to restore data sharing with each relevant State 
        agency tasked with regulation of environmental contamination by 
        perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances in each State or 
        territory of the United States.
            (2) A plan to restore data sharing with restoration 
        advisory boards established under section 2705(d) of title 10, 
        United States Code.
            (3) Information on the geographic specificity of the data 
        to be provided under paragraphs (1) and (2) and a timeline for 
        the implementation of the plans under such paragraphs.
    (b) Inability to Meet Transparency Requirements.--If the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment determines that 
they are unable to meet the requirements under subsection (a), the 
Under Secretary shall brief the congressional defense committees on the 
rationale for why the restoration of data sharing required under such 
subsection is not possible, including a description of any legislative 
action required to restore such data sharing.

SEC. 325. DASHBOARD OF FUNDING RELATING TO PERFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCES 
              AND POLYFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCES.

    The Secretary of Defense shall include with the submission to 
Congress by the President of the annual budget of the Department of 
Defense for a fiscal year under section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
States Code, a separate budget justification document that consolidates 
all information pertaining to activities of the Department of Defense 
relating to perfluoroalkyl substances and polyfluoroalkyl substances, 
including funding for and descriptions of--
            (1) research and development efforts;
            (2) testing;
            (3) remediation;
            (4) contaminant disposal; and
            (5) community outreach.

SEC. 326. REPORT ON SCHEDULE AND COST ESTIMATES FOR COMPLETION OF 
              TESTING AND REMEDIATION OF CONTAMINATED SITES AND 
              PUBLICATION OF CLEANUP INFORMATION.

    (a) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 270 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and once every two years thereafter 
        through December 31, 2029, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
        the House of Representatives a report detailing--
                    (A) a proposed schedule for the completion of 
                testing and remediation activities, including 
                remediation of perfluoroalkyl substances and 
                polyfluoroalkyl substances, at military installations, 
                facilities of the National Guard, and formerly used 
                defense sites in the United States where the Secretary 
                obligated funding for environmental restoration 
                activities in fiscal year 2022;
                    (B) detailed cost estimates to complete such 
                activities, if such estimates are available; and
                    (C) if such estimates are not available, estimated 
                costs to complete such activities based on historical 
                costs of remediation for--
                            (i) sites remediated under the Defense 
                        Environmental Restoration Program under section 
                        2701 of title 10, United States Code;
                            (ii) other Federally-funded sites; or
                            (iii) privately-funded sites.
            (2) Inclusion of remedial investigations and feasibility 
        studies.--The schedule and cost estimates required under 
        paragraph (1) shall include a schedule and estimated costs for 
        the completion of remedial investigations and feasibility 
        studies at all sites covered under such paragraph for which 
        such investigations and studies are anticipated or planned.
            (3) Military installation defined.--In this subsection, the 
        term ``military installation'' has the meaning given such term 
        in section 2801(c)(4) of title 10, United States Code.
    (b) Publication of Information.--Beginning not later than one year 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
shall publish on the publicly available website established under 
section 331(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92; 10 U.S.C. 2701 note) timely and regularly 
updated information on the status of cleanup at sites for which the 
Secretary has obligated amounts for environmental restoration 
activities.

SEC. 327. MODIFICATION OF TIMING OF REPORT ON ACTIVITIES OF PFAS TASK 
              FORCE.

    Section 2714(f) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``and quarterly thereafter,'' and inserting ``and annually 
thereafter through 2029,''.

SEC. 328. GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE REPORT ON TESTING AND 
              REMEDIATION OF PERFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCES AND 
              POLYFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCES.

    Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, and not later than five years thereafter, the Comptroller General 
of the United States shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report assessing the state of ongoing testing and 
remediation by the Department of Defense of current or former military 
installations contaminated with perfluoroalkyl substances or 
polyfluoroalkyl substances, including--
            (1) assessments of the thoroughness, pace, and cost-
        effectiveness of efforts of the Department to conduct testing 
        and remediation relating to those substances;
            (2) recommendations to improve those efforts; and
            (3) such other matters as the Comptroller General 
        determines appropriate.

                 Subtitle D--Logistics and Sustainment

SEC. 331. ASSURING CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORT FOR MILITARY 
              CONTINGENCIES PILOT PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment of Pilot Program.--Not later than 60 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
establish a pilot program to be known as the ``Assuring Critical 
Infrastructure Support for Military Contingencies Pilot Program''.
    (b) Selection of Installations.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, acting 
        through the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Homeland Defense 
        and Hemispheric Affairs, shall select not fewer than four 
        geographically diverse military installations at which to carry 
        out the pilot program under subsection (a).
            (2) Prioritization.--
                    (A) In general.--In selecting military 
                installations under paragraph (1), the Secretary of 
                Defense shall give priority to any military 
                installation that is a key component of not fewer than 
                two Contingency Plans (CONPLANs) or Operational Plans 
                (OPLANs), with priority given to such plans in the area 
                of responsibility of the United States Indo-Pacific 
                Command or the United States European Command.
                    (B) Additional priority.--If two or more military 
                installations are given equal priority under 
                subparagraph (A), priority for selection under 
                paragraph (1) shall be given to the military 
                installations that are--
                            (i) connected to national-level 
                        infrastructure;
                            (ii) located near a commercial port; or
                            (iii) located near a national financial 
                        hub.
    (c) Activities.--In carrying out the pilot program under subsection 
(a), the Secretary of Defense, acting through the Assistant Secretary 
of Defense for Homeland Defense and Hemispheric Affairs, shall--
            (1) without duplicating or disrupting existing cyber 
        exercise activities under the National Cyber Exercise Program 
        under section 2220B of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 
        U.S.C. 665h), conduct cyber resiliency and reconstitution 
        stress test scenarios through tabletop exercises and, if 
        possible, live exercises--
                    (A) to assess how to prioritize restoration of 
                power, water, and telecommunications for a military 
                installation in the event of a significant cyberattack 
                on regional critical infrastructure that has similar 
                impacts on State and local infrastructure; and
                    (B) to determine the recovery process needed to 
                ensure the military installation can function and 
                support an overseas contingency operation or a homeland 
                defense mission, as appropriate;
            (2) map dependencies of power, water, and 
        telecommunications at the military installation and the 
        connections to distribution and generation outside the military 
        installation;
            (3) recommend priorities for the order of recovery for the 
        military installation in the event of a significant 
        cyberattack, considering both the requirements needed for 
        operations of the military installation and the potential 
        participation of personnel at the military installation in an 
        overseas contingency operation or a homeland defense mission; 
        and
            (4) create a lessons-learned database from the exercises 
        conducted under paragraph (1) across all installations 
        participating in the pilot program to share with the 
        appropriate committees of Congress.
    (d) Coordination With Related Programs.--The Secretary of Defense, 
acting through the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Homeland Defense 
and Hemispheric Affairs, shall ensure that activities under subsection 
(c) are coordinated with--
            (1) private entities that operate power, water, and 
        telecommunications for a military installation participating in 
        the pilot program under subsection (a);
            (2) relevant military and civilian personnel; and
            (3) any other entity that the Assistant Secretary of 
        Defense for Homeland Defense and Hemispheric Affairs determines 
        is relevant to the execution of activities under subsection 
        (c).
    (e) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Assistant to the President for Homeland Security, the National Cyber 
Director, the head of any other relevant Sector Risk Management Agency, 
the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives, and, if appropriate, relevant private sector owners 
and operators of critical infrastructure a report on the activities 
carried out under pilot program under subsection (a), including a 
description of any operational challenges identified.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Critical infrastructure.--The term ``critical 
        infrastructure'' has the meaning given that term in the 
        Critical Infrastructures Protection Act of 2001 (42 U.S.C. 
        5195c).
            (2) Sector risk management agency.--The term ``Sector Risk 
        Management Agency'' has the meaning given that term in section 
        2200 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 650).

SEC. 332. STRATEGY AND ASSESSMENT ON USE OF AUTOMATION AND ARTIFICIAL 
              INTELLIGENCE FOR SHIPYARD OPTIMIZATION.

    (a) Strategy.--The Secretary of Navy, in coordination with the 
Shipyard Infrastructure Optimization Program, shall develop and 
implement a strategy to leverage commercial best practices used in 
shipyards to make operations more efficient and demonstrate a digital 
maintenance artificial intelligence platform that analyzes data on the 
maintenance and health of shipboard assets of the Navy at shipyards, 
which shall improve readiness of the Armed Forces, predict and diagnose 
issues before they occur, and lower maintenance costs.
    (b) Assessment.--The Secretary of Navy shall assess the costs of 
maintenance delays on shipboard assets of the Navy and assess the 
potential cost savings of adopting artificial intelligence predictive 
maintenance technology techniques that help determine the condition of 
in-service equipment to estimate when maintenance should be performed 
rather than waiting until failure or end of life, including--
            (1) an analysis of maintenance delays and costs due to 
        unplanned and unpredicted maintenance issues;
            (2) an evaluation of opportunities to demonstrate 
        commercial best practices at shipyards, including artificial 
        intelligence technologies to ensure timely predictions for 
        maintainers and planners at shipyards by connecting datasets, 
        executing models, and providing outputs in near real-time;
            (3) an identification of shipyard assets of the Navy with 
        sufficient data available to enable near-term demonstrations of 
        artificial intelligence predictive maintenance and an estimate 
        of resources needed within the Navy to accelerate the 
        demonstration of predictive artificial intelligence 
        capabilities with respect to those assets; and
            (4) an identification of any policy or technical challenges 
        to implementing artificial intelligence or machine learning for 
        purposes of carrying out the Shipyard Infrastructure 
        Optimization Program.
    (c) Briefing to Committee.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Navy shall provide to 
the congressional defense committees a briefing on--
            (1) the strategy developed by the Secretary under 
        subsection (a);
            (2) the results of the assessment under subsection (b); and
            (3) a plan to execute any measures pursuant to such 
        assessment.

                   Subtitle E--Briefings and Reports

SEC. 341. CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE CONDITIONS AT MILITARY INSTALLATIONS.

    (a) Plan.--Not later than one year after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the head of 
each military department, shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a plan to 
implement a standardized system to measure and report on the condition 
and performance of, level of investment in, and any applicable risks to 
critical infrastructure systems owned by the Federal Government that--
            (1) have not been privatized pursuant to a conveyance under 
        section 2688 of title 10, United States Code; and
            (2) are located on a military installation.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Beginning on February 1 of the year 
        immediately following the date on which the plan under 
        subsection (a) is submitted, and annually thereafter, the 
        Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the head of each 
        military department, shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
        Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
        consolidated report on the condition of critical infrastructure 
        systems owned by the Federal Government at military 
        installations.
            (2) Elements.--Each report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) Installation-level critical infrastructure 
                system data for each critical infrastructure system 
                owned by the Federal Government located at a military 
                installation that includes the following for each such 
                system:
                            (i) All instances of noncompliance with any 
                        applicable Federal or State law (including 
                        regulations) with which the system has been 
                        required to comply during the preceding five-
                        year period, including information on any prior 
                        or current consent order or equivalent 
                        compliance agreement with any regulatory 
                        agency.
                            (ii) The year of original installation of 
                        major critical infrastructure system 
                        components, including treatment facilities, 
                        pump stations, and storage tanks.
                            (iii) The average age of distribution 
                        system piping and wiring.
                            (iv) The rate of system recapitalization, 
                        represented as an annual percentage replacement 
                        rate of all critical infrastructure system 
                        assets.
                            (v) The percentage of key system 
                        operational components inspected, and 
                        determined through actual testing to be fully 
                        operational, during the preceding one-year 
                        period, including fire hydrants, valves, and 
                        backflow preventors.
                            (vi) The absolute number, and a normalized 
                        measure for comparative purposes, of all 
                        unplanned system outages during the preceding 
                        one-year period.
                            (vii) The absolute duration, and a 
                        normalized measure for comparative purposes, of 
                        all unplanned system outages during the 
                        preceding one-year period.
                            (viii) The absolute number, and a 
                        normalized measure for comparative purposes, of 
                        all critical infrastructure system main breaks 
                        and leaks during the preceding one-year period.
                    (B) A standardized risk assessment for each 
                military installation, identifying the current and 
                projected level of risk related to the following:
                            (i) The ability to maintain compliance with 
                        all current and known future regulatory agency 
                        regulations and standards and all applicable 
                        regulations and policies of the Department of 
                        Defense and the military departments related to 
                        critical infrastructure, and the ability to 
                        operate systems in accordance with accepted 
                        industry standards.
                            (ii) The ability to maintain a consistent 
                        and compliant supply of water for current and 
                        projected future installation needs based on 
                        current and projected source water availability 
                        and quality, including an assessment of source 
                        water contamination risks.
                            (iii) The ability to withstand severe 
                        weather events, including drought, flooding, 
                        and temperature fluctuations.
                            (iv) The ability for utility industrial 
                        controls systems to maintain compliance with 
                        current and future cybersecurity standards and 
                        regulations.

SEC. 342. REPORT ON ESTABLISHING SUFFICIENT STABLING, PASTURE, AND 
              TRAINING AREA FOR THE OLD GUARD CAISSON PLATOON EQUINES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than March 1, 2024, the Secretary of the 
Army shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
containing the results of a study to address the feasibility and 
advisability of establishing sufficient stabling, pasture, and training 
area for the equines in the Caisson Platoon of the 3rd United States 
Infantry (commonly known as the ``Old Guard'').
    (b) Inclusion of Recommendations.--The report required under 
subsection (a) shall include--
            (1) any recommendations determined necessary and 
        appropriate by the Secretary--
                    (A) to implement the plan required under section 
                391(b) of the James M. Inhofe National Defense 
                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-
                263; 136 Stat. 2549); and
                    (B) to ensure proper animal facility sanitation for 
                the equines in the Caisson Platoon of the 3rd United 
                States Infantry; and
            (2) plans for the housing and care of such equines.
    (c) Locations.--
            (1) Review of military construction authorization.--The 
        report required under subsection (a) shall include a review of 
        all physical locations under consideration as stabling, 
        pasture, or training area described in such subsection for any 
        withdrawals or projects that would require individual military 
        construction authorization.
            (2) Consideration.--In considering locations for stabling, 
        pasture, or training area under subsection (a), the Secretary 
        of the Army shall consider all viable options within a 
        reasonable distance to Arlington National Cemetery.
    (d) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include, for each location under consideration as stabling, pasture, or 
training area described in such subsection--
            (1) a brief environmental assessment of the location;
            (2) estimated costs for preparing the location for 
        construction;
            (3) a narrative of how the location will be beneficial and 
        conducive the health of the equines in the Caisson Platoon of 
        the 3rd United States Infantry;
            (4) a narrative of how, if necessary, the location can be 
        expanded; and
            (5) a narrative of how the location will affect community 
        access to outdoor recreation.

SEC. 343. QUARTERLY BRIEFINGS ON OPERATIONAL STATUS OF AMPHIBIOUS 
              WARSHIP FLEET OF DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY.

    (a) In General.--Not later than October 1, 2023, and quarterly 
thereafter until September 30, 2024, the Secretary of the Navy shall 
provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House 
of Representatives a briefing on the operational status of the 
amphibious warship fleet of the Department of the Navy.
    (b) Elements.--Each briefing under subsection (a) shall include, 
with respect to each amphibious warship, the following:
            (1) Average quarterly Operational Availability (AO).
            (2) Number of days underway as follows:
                    (A) Training for the purpose of supporting Mission 
                Essential Tasks (in this section referred to as 
                ``MET'') of the Marine Corps, including unit level 
                well-deck or flight-deck operations training and 
                Amphibious Ready Group and Marine Expeditionary Unit 
                integrated training.
                    (B) Deployed, which shall not include scheduled or 
                unscheduled in port maintenance.
            (3) Expected completion date for in-work and scheduled and 
        unscheduled maintenance.
            (4) An update on any delays in completion of scheduled and 
        unscheduled maintenance and casualty reports impacting the 
        following:
                    (A) Scheduled unit level well-deck and flight-deck 
                operations training of the Marine Corps.
                    (B) MET certifications of the Marine Corps, 
                including mobility, communications, amphibious well-
                deck operations, aviation operations, and warfare 
                training.
                    (C) Composition and deployment dates of scheduled 
                and deployed Amphibious Ready Groups and Marine 
                Expeditionary Units.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Amphibious warship.--The term ``amphibious warship'' 
        means a ship that is classified as an amphibious assault ship 
        (general purpose) (LHA), an amphibious assault ship (multi-
        purpose) (LHD), an amphibious transport dock (LPD), or a dock 
        landing ship (LSD) that is included in the Battle Force 
        Inventory in accordance with instruction 5030.8D of the 
        Secretary of the Navy, or successor instruction.
            (2) Amphibious ready group; marine expeditionary unit.--The 
        terms ``Amphibious Ready Group'' and ``Marine Expeditionary 
        Unit'' means a group or unit, as the case may be, that consists 
        of a minimum of--
                    (A) three amphibious assault ships (general 
                purpose) (LHA) or amphibious assault ships (multi-
                purpose) (LHD); and
                    (B) one amphibious transport dock (LPD) Flight I.

SEC. 344. BRIEFING ON PLAN FOR MAINTAINING PROFICIENCY IN EMERGENCY 
              MOVEMENT OF MUNITIONS IN JOINT REGION MARIANAS, GUAM.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of the Air Force shall 
brief the congressional defense committees on a plan for maintaining 
the proficiency of the Navy and the Air Force, respectively, in 
executing the emergency movement of munitions stored in weapons storage 
areas in Joint Region Marianas, Guam, onto aircraft and naval vessels, 
including plans to regularly exercise such capabilities.

                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

SEC. 351. CONTINUED DESIGNATION OF SECRETARY OF THE NAVY AS EXECUTIVE 
              AGENT FOR NAVAL SMALL CRAFT INSTRUCTION AND TECHNICAL 
              TRAINING SCHOOL.

     The Secretary of the Navy shall continue, through fiscal year 
2024--
            (1) to perform the responsibilities of the Department of 
        Defense executive agent for the Naval Small Craft Instruction 
        and Technical Training School pursuant to section 352(b) of 
        title 10, United States Code; and
            (2) in coordination with the Commander of the United States 
        Special Operations Command, to provide such support, as 
        necessary, for the continued operation of such school.

SEC. 352. RESTRICTION ON RETIREMENT OF U-28 AIRCRAFT.

    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act may be 
used to retire U-28 aircraft until the Secretary of Defense certifies 
to the congressional defense committees that the future-years defense 
program submitted to Congress under section 221 of title 10, United 
States Code, with respect to the United States Special Operations 
Command provides for intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance 
capacity and capability that is equal to or greater than such capacity 
and capability provided by the current fleet of U-28 aircraft for such 
Command.

SEC. 353. TRIBAL LIAISONS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that each 
installation of the Department of Defense that has an Indian Tribe, 
Native Hawaiian organization, or Tribal interests in the area 
surrounding the installation, including if an Indian Tribe or Native 
Hawaiian organization is historically or culturally affiliated with the 
land or water managed or directly impacted by the installation, has a 
dedicated Tribal liaison located at the installation.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian Tribe'' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 4(e) of the Indian Self-
        Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304(e)).
            (2) Native hawaiian organization.--The term ``Native 
        Hawaiian organization'' has the meaning given that term in 
        section 6207 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
        1965 (20 U.S.C. 7517).

SEC. 354. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS TO EXPAND LEASED FACILITIES FOR 
              THE JOINT MILITARY INFORMATION SUPPORT OPERATIONS WEB 
              OPERATIONS CENTER.

    None of the amounts authorized by this Act for operation and 
maintenance, Defense-wide to expand leased facilities for the Joint 
Military Information Support Operations Web Operations Center may be 
obligated or expended until the Secretary of Defense, acting through 
the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low-
Intensity Conflict and the Commander of the United States Special 
Operations Command, submits to the congressional defense committees a 
validated manpower study for such center that includes the following:
            (1) Validated estimates of the number of personnel from the 
        United States Special Operations Command and the other 
        combatant commands that will be housed in leased facilities of 
        such center.
            (2) An explanation of how such estimates are aligned with 
        and support the priorities established by the national defense 
        strategy under 113(g) of title 10, United States Code.

SEC. 355. MODIFICATIONS TO THE CONTESTED LOGISTICS WORKING GROUP OF THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Expansion of Working Group.--
            (1) In general.--Paragraph (3) of section 2926(d) of title 
        10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new subparagraph:
            ``(D) A representative appointed by the Secretary of 
        Defense from each of the following:
                    ``(i) The Defense Logistics Agency.
                    ``(ii) The Strategic Capabilities Office.
                    ``(iii) The Defense Advanced Research Projects 
                Agency.
                    ``(iv) The Office of the Under Secretary of Defense 
                for Research and Engineering.''.
            (2) Timing.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall appoint 
        the additional members of the working group required under 
        paragraph (3)(D) of such section, as added by paragraph (1) of 
        this subsection.
    (b) Meetings.--Such section is further amended by adding at the end 
the following new paragraph:
    ``(6) The working group under paragraph (1) shall meet not less 
frequently than quarterly.''.
    (c) Reports.--Such section is further amended by adding at the end 
the following new paragraph:
    ``(7) Not later than February 1 of each year, the working group 
under paragraph (1) shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report that contains a description of any shortfalls in 
personnel, equipment, infrastructure, energy and storage, or 
capabilities required to support the operational plans of the 
Department of Defense.''.

SEC. 356. ESTABLISHMENT OF CAISSON PLATOON TO SUPPORT MILITARY AND 
              STATE FUNERAL SERVICES.

    (a) In General.--There is established in the Department of the Army 
an equine unit, to be known as the Caisson Platoon, assigned to the 3rd 
Infantry Regiment of the Army, for the purposes of conducting military 
and State funerals and for other purposes.
    (b) Prohibition on Elimination.--The Secretary of the Army may not 
eliminate the Caisson Platoon of the 3rd Infantry Regiment of the Army 
established under subsection (a).
    (c) Briefing.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than every 
        180 days thereafter until March 31, 2027, the Secretary of the 
        Army shall provide to the congressional defense committees a 
        briefing on the health, welfare, and sustainment of military 
        working equids.
            (2) Elements.--The briefing required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) An assessment of the ability of the Caisson 
                Platoon of the 3rd Infantry Regiment of the Army to 
                support military funeral operations within Arlington 
                National Cemetery, including milestones associated with 
                achieving full operational capability for the Caisson 
                Platoon.
                    (B) An update on the plan of the task force of the 
                Army on military working equids to promote, support, 
                and sustain animal health and welfare.
                    (C) An update on the plan of such task force to 
                ensure that support by the Caisson Platoon of Arlington 
                National Cemetery and State funerals is never suspended 
                again.

SEC. 357. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS PENDING 30-YEAR 
              SHIPBUILDING PLAN THAT MAINTAINS 31 AMPHIBIOUS WARSHIPS 
              FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY.

    (a) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2024 for Administration 
and Servicewide Activities, Operation and Maintenance, Navy, not more 
than 50 percent may be obligated or expended until the date on which 
the Secretary of the Navy submits to the congressional defense 
committees a 30-year shipbuilding plan that meets the statutory 
requirement in section 8062(b) of title 10, United States Code, to 
maintain 31 amphibious warships.
    (b) Amphibious Warship Defined.--In this section, the term 
``amphibious warship'' means a ship that is classified as an amphibious 
assault ship (general purpose) (LHA), an amphibious assault ship 
(multi-purpose) (LHD), an amphibious transport dock (LPD), or a dock 
landing ship (LSD) that is included in the Battle Force Inventory in 
accordance with instruction 5030.8D of the Secretary of the Navy, or 
successor instruction.

SEC. 358. MODIFICATION OF RULE OF CONSTRUCTION REGARDING PROVISION OF 
              SUPPORT AND SERVICES TO NON-DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              ORGANIZATIONS AND ACTIVITIES.

    Section 2012(i) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively;
            (2) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), as 
        redesignated by paragraph (1), by striking ``Nothing in this 
        section'' and inserting ``(1) Nothing in this section'';
            (3) in subparagraph (A), as so redesignated, by inserting 
        ``, except as provided in paragraph (2),'' before ``for 
        response''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) Funds available to the Secretary of a military department for 
operation and maintenance for the Innovative Readiness Training program 
may be expended under this section, upon approval by the Secretary 
concerned, to assist in demolition, clearing of roads, infrastructure 
improvements, and construction to restore an area after a natural 
disaster.''.

SEC. 359. MODIFICATIONS TO MILITARY AVIATION AND INSTALLATION ASSURANCE 
              CLEARINGHOUSE FOR REVIEW OF MISSION OBSTRUCTIONS.

    (a) Projects Proposed Within Two Nautical Miles of Any Active 
Intercontinental Ballistic Missile Launch Facility or Control Center.--
Section 183a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (d)(2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``or any 
                active intercontinental ballistic missile launch 
                facility or control center'' after ``military training 
                routes''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``or a Deputy 
                Under Secretary of Defense'' and inserting ``a Deputy 
                Under Secretary of Defense, or, in the case of a 
                geographic area of concern related to an active 
                intercontinental ballistic missile launch facility or 
                control center, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
                Energy, Installations, and Environment''; and
            (2) in subsection (e)(1)--
                    (A) in the first sentence--
                            (i) by striking ``The Secretary'' and 
                        inserting ``(A) The Secretary''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``or antenna structure 
                        project'' after ``energy project'';
                    (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``The 
                Secretary of Defense's finding of unacceptable risk to 
                national security'' and inserting the following:
    ``(C) Any finding of unacceptable risk to national security by the 
Secretary of Defense under this paragraph''; and
                    (C) by inserting after subparagraph (A), as 
                designated by subparagraph (A)(i) of this paragraph, 
                the following new subparagraph:
    ``(B)(i) In the case of any energy project or antenna structure 
project with proposed structures more than 200 feet above ground level 
located within two nautical miles of an active intercontinental 
ballistic missile launch facility or control center, the Secretary of 
Defense shall issue a finding of unacceptable risk to national security 
for such project if the mitigation actions identified pursuant to this 
section do not include removal of all such proposed structures from 
such project after receiving notice of presumed risk from the 
Clearinghouse under subsection (c)(2).
    ``(ii) Clause (i) does not apply to structures approved before the 
date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2024 or to structures that are re-powered with updated 
technology in the same location as previously approved structures.''.
    (b) Inclusion of Antenna Structure Projects.--
            (1) In general.--Such section is further amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``or antenna structure projects'' 
                after ``energy projects'' each place it appears; and
                    (B) by inserting ``or antenna structure project'' 
                after ``energy project'' each place it appears (except 
                for subsections (e)(1) and (h)(2)).
            (2) Antenna structure project defined.--Section 183a(h) of 
        such title is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (9) as 
                paragraphs (3) through (10), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following 
                new paragraph:
            ``(2) The term `antenna structure project'--
                    ``(A) means a project to construct a structure 
                located within two nautical miles of any 
                intercontinental ballistic missile launch facility or 
                control center that is constructed or used to transmit 
                radio energy or that is constructed or used for the 
                primary purpose of supporting antennas to transmit or 
                receive radio energy (or both), and any antennas and 
                other appurtenances mounted on the structure, from the 
                time construction of the supporting structure begins 
                until such time as the supporting structure is 
                dismantled; and
                    ``(B) does not include any project in support of or 
                required by an intercontinental ballistic missile 
                launch facility or control center.''.

              TITLE IV--MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS

                       Subtitle A--Active Forces

SEC. 401. END STRENGTHS FOR ACTIVE FORCES.

    The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for active duty personnel 
as of September 30, 2024, as follows:
            (1) The Army, 452,000.
            (2) The Navy, 342,000.
            (3) The Marine Corps, 172,300.
            (4) The Air Force, 320,000.
            (5) The Space Force, 9,400.

SEC. 402. END STRENGTH LEVEL MATTERS.

    Section 115 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (f)(2), by striking ``not more than 2 
        percent'' and inserting ``not more than 3 percent''; and
            (2) in subsection (g)(1), by striking subparagraphs (A) and 
        (B) and inserting the following new subparagraphs:
                    ``(A) vary the end strength pursuant to subsection 
                (a)(1)(A) for a fiscal year for the armed force or 
                forces under the jurisdiction of that Secretary by a 
                number not equal to more than 2 percent of such 
                authorized end strength;
                    ``(B) vary the end strength pursuant to subsection 
                (a)(1)(B) for a fiscal year for the armed force or 
                forces under the jurisdiction of that Secretary by a 
                number not equal to more than 2 percent of such 
                authorized end strength; and
                    ``(C) vary the end strength pursuant to subsection 
                (a)(2) for a fiscal year for the Selected Reserve of 
                the reserve component of the armed force or forces 
                under the jurisdiction of that Secretary by a number 
                equal to not more than 2 percent of such authorized end 
                strength.''.

SEC. 403. EXTENSION OF ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY TO VARY SPACE FORCE END 
              STRENGTH.

    Section 403(b) of the James M. Inhofe National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263) is amended 
by striking ``December 31, 2023'' and inserting ``October 1, 2025''.

                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

SEC. 411. END STRENGTHS FOR SELECTED RESERVE.

    (a) In General.--The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for 
Selected Reserve personnel of the reserve components as of September 
30, 2024, as follows:
            (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 325,000.
            (2) The Army Reserve, 174,800.
            (3) The Navy Reserve, 57,200.
            (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 33,600.
            (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 105,000.
            (6) The Air Force Reserve, 69,600.
            (7) The Coast Guard Reserve, 7,000.
    (b) End Strength Reductions.--The end strengths prescribed by 
subsection (a) for the Selected Reserve of any reserve component shall 
be proportionately reduced by--
            (1) the total authorized strength of units organized to 
        serve as units of the Selected Reserve of such component which 
        are on active duty (other than for training) at the end of the 
        fiscal year; and
            (2) the total number of individual members not in units 
        organized to serve as units of the Selected Reserve of such 
        component who are on active duty (other than for training or 
        for unsatisfactory participation in training) without their 
        consent at the end of the fiscal year.
    (c) End Strength Increases.--Whenever units or individual members 
of the Selected Reserve for any reserve component are released from 
active duty during any fiscal year, the end strength prescribed for 
such fiscal year for the Selected Reserve of such reserve component 
shall be increased proportionately by the total authorized strengths of 
such units and by the total number of such individual members.

SEC. 412. END STRENGTHS FOR RESERVES ON ACTIVE DUTY IN SUPPORT OF THE 
              RESERVES.

    Within the end strengths prescribed in section 411(a), the reserve 
components of the Armed Forces are authorized, as of September 30, 
2024, the following number of Reserves to be serving on full-time 
active duty or full-time duty, in the case of members of the National 
Guard, for the purpose of organizing, administering, recruiting, 
instructing, or training the reserve components:
            (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 30,845.
            (2) The Army Reserve, 16,511.
            (3) The Navy Reserve, 10,327.
            (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 2,355.
            (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 25,333.
            (6) The Air Force Reserve, 6,003.

SEC. 413. END STRENGTHS FOR MILITARY TECHNICIANS (DUAL STATUS).

    (a) In General.--The minimum number of military technicians (dual 
status) as of the last day of fiscal year 2024 for the reserve 
components of the Army and the Air Force (notwithstanding section 129 
of title 10, United States Code) shall be the following:
            (1) For the Army National Guard of the United States, 
        22,294.
            (2) For the Army Reserve, 7,990.
            (3) For the Air National Guard of the United States, 
        10,994.
            (4) For the Air Force Reserve, 7,111.
    (b) Limitation on Number of Temporary Military Technicians (dual 
Status).--The number of temporary military technicians (dual status) 
employed under the authority of subsection (a) may not exceed 25 
percent of the total authorized number specified in such subsection.
    (c) Limitation.--Under no circumstances may a military technician 
(dual status) employed under the authority of this section be coerced 
by a State into accepting an offer of realignment or conversion to any 
other military status, including as a member of the Active, Guard, and 
Reserve program of a reserve component. If a military technician (dual 
status) declines to participate in such realignment or conversion, no 
further action will be taken against the individual or the individual's 
position.

SEC. 414. MAXIMUM NUMBER OF RESERVE PERSONNEL AUTHORIZED TO BE ON 
              ACTIVE DUTY FOR OPERATIONAL SUPPORT.

    During fiscal year 2024, the maximum number of members of the 
reserve components of the Armed Forces who may be serving at any time 
on full-time operational support duty under section 115(b) of title 10, 
United States Code, is the following:
            (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 17,000.
            (2) The Army Reserve, 13,000.
            (3) The Navy Reserve, 6,200.
            (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 3,000.
            (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 16,000.
            (6) The Air Force Reserve, 14,000.

              Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 421. MILITARY PERSONNEL.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal year 2024 for the use of the Armed Forces 
and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for 
expenses, not otherwise provided for, for military personnel, as 
specified in the funding table in section 4401.
    (b) Construction of Authorization.--The authorization of 
appropriations in subsection (a) supersedes any other authorization of 
appropriations (definite or indefinite) for such purpose for fiscal 
year 2024.

                   TITLE V--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

                  Subtitle A--Officer Personnel Policy

SEC. 501. AUTHORIZED STRENGTH: GENERAL AND FLAG OFFICERS ON ACTIVE 
              DUTY.

    (a) Repeal of Obsolete Authority; Redesignation.--Chapter 32 of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by repealing section 526;
            (2) by redesignating section 526a as section 526;
            (3) in the table of sections for such chapter, by striking 
        the item relating to section 526a; and
            (4) in the section heading for section 526, as redesignated 
        by paragraph (2), by striking ``after December 31, 2022''.
    (b) Increased Authorized Strength.--Section 526 of title 10, United 
States Code, as redesignated and amended by subsection (a), is further 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``after December 31, 2022,'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``218'' and 
                inserting ``219'';
                    (C) in paragraph (2), by striking ``149'' and 
                inserting ``150'';
                    (D) in paragraph (3), by striking ``170'' and 
                inserting ``171''; and
                    (E) in paragraph (4), by striking ``62'' and 
                inserting ``64''; and
            (2) by redesignating the second subsection designated as 
        subsection (i) as subsection (j).
    (c) Repeal of Exclusion of Officers Serving as Lead Special Trial 
Counsel From Limitations on Authorized Strengths.--Section 506 of the 
James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 
is hereby repealed.

SEC. 502. PROHIBITION ON APPOINTMENT OR NOMINATION OF CERTAIN OFFICERS 
              WHO ARE SUBJECT TO SPECIAL SELECTION REVIEW BOARDS.

    (a) Officers on Active-duty List.--
            Section 628a(a)(2)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is 
        amended to read as follows:
            ``(B) shall not be forwarded for appointment or nomination 
        to the Secretary of Defense, the President, or the Senate, as 
        applicable.''.
    (b) Officers on Reserve Active-status List.--
            Section 14502a(a)(2)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is 
        amended to read as follows:
            ``(B) shall not be forwarded for appointment or nomination 
        to the Secretary of Defense, the President, or the Senate, as 
        applicable.''.

SEC. 503. EXCLUSION OF OFFICERS WHO ARE LICENSED BEHAVIORAL HEALTH 
              PROVIDERS FROM LIMITATIONS ON ACTIVE DUTY COMMISSIONED 
              OFFICER END STRENGTHS.

    Section 523(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(10) Officers who are licensed behavioral health 
        providers, including clinical psychologists, social workers, 
        and mental health nurse practitioners.''.

SEC. 504. UPDATING AUTHORITY TO AUTHORIZE PROMOTION TRANSFERS BETWEEN 
              COMPONENTS OF THE SAME SERVICE OR A DIFFERENT SERVICE.

    (a) Warrant Officers Transferred Between Components Within the Same 
or a Different Uniformed Service.--Section 578 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(g) Notwithstanding subsection (d), and subject to regulations 
prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, in the case of a warrant 
officer who is selected for promotion by a selection board convened 
under this chapter, and prior to the placement of the warrant officer's 
name on the applicable promotion list is approved for transfer to a new 
component within the same or a different uniformed service, the 
Secretary concerned may place the warrant officer's name on a 
corresponding promotion list of the new component without regard to the 
warrant officer's competitive category. A warrant officer's promotion 
under this subsection shall be made pursuant to section 12242 of this 
title.''.
    (b) Officers Transferred to Reserve Active Status List.--
            (1) In general.--Section 624 of such title is amended by 
        adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(e) Notwithstanding subsection (a)(2), in the case of an officer 
who is selected for promotion by a selection board convened under this 
chapter, and prior to the placement of the officer's name on the 
applicable promotion list is approved for transfer to the reserve 
active status list of the same or a different uniformed service, the 
Secretary concerned may place the officer's name on a corresponding 
promotion list on the reserve active-status list without regard to the 
officer's competitive category. An officer's promotion under this 
subsection shall be made pursuant to section 14308 of this title.
    ``(f) Notwithstanding subsection (a)(3), in the case of an officer 
who is placed on an all-fully-qualified-officers list, and is 
subsequently approved for transfer to the reserve active status list, 
the Secretary concerned may place the officer's name on an appropriate 
all-fully-qualified-officers list on the reserve active status list. An 
officer's promotion under this subsection shall be made pursuant to 
section 14308 of this title.''.
            (2) Date of rank.--Section 14308(c) of such title is 
        amended--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph 
                (4); and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following 
                new paragraph:
    ``(3) The Secretary concerned may adjust the date of rank of an 
officer whose name is placed on a reserve active status promotion list 
pursuant to subsection (e) or (f) of section 624 of this title.''.

SEC. 505. EFFECT OF FAILURE OF SELECTION FOR PROMOTION.

    (a) Effect of Failure of Selection for Promotion: Captains and 
Majors of the Army, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Space Force and 
Lieutenants and Lieutenant Commanders of the Navy.--
            (1) In general.--Section 632 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) in the section heading, by striking ``and 
                Marine Corps'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, and Space 
                Force'';
                    (B) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``President 
                approves the report of the board which considered him 
                for the second time'' and inserting ``Secretary 
                concerned releases the promotion results of the board 
                which considered the officer for the second time to the 
                public''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 36 of title 10, United States Code, is 
        amended by striking the item relating to section 632 and 
        inserting the following new item:

``632. Effect of failure of selection for promotion: captains and 
                            majors of the Army, Air Force, Marine 
                            Corps, and Space Force and lieutenants and 
                            lieutenant commanders of the Navy.''.
    (b) Retirement of Regular Officers of the Navy for Length of 
Service or Failure of Selection for Promotion.--Section 8372(a)(2)(A) 
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``President 
approves the report of the board which considered him for the second 
time'' and inserting ``Secretary concerned releases the promotion 
results of the board which considered the officer for the second time 
to the public''.

SEC. 506. PERMANENT AUTHORITY TO ORDER RETIRED MEMBERS TO ACTIVE DUTY 
              IN HIGH-DEMAND, LOW-DENSITY APPOINTMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 688a of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``Retired aviators: 
        temporary authority'' and inserting ``Authority'';
            (2) by striking subsection (f);
            (3) by redesignating subsections (g) and (h) as subsections 
        (f) and (g), respectively; and
            (4) in subsection (f), as redesignated by paragraph (3), by 
        striking ``limitations in subsections (c) and (f)'' and 
        inserting ``limitation in subsection (c)''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 39 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking the 
item relating to section 688a and inserting the following new item:

``688a. Authority to order to active duty in high-demand, low-density 
                            assignments.''.

SEC. 507. WAIVER AUTHORITY EXPANSION FOR THE EXTENSION OF SERVICE 
              OBLIGATION FOR MARINE CORPS CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS 
              OFFICERS.

    (a) Required Service.--Section 651(c) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``or in the case of an 
        unrestricted officer designated within a cyberspace 
        occupational specialty'' before the period at the end; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``; or'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period and 
                inserting ``; or''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
            ``(C) in the case of an unrestricted officer who has been 
        designated with a cyberspace occupational specialty, the period 
        of obligated service specified in such contract or 
        agreement.''.
    (b) Minimum Service Requirement for Certain Cyberspace Occupational 
Specialties.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 37 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by inserting after section 653 the new 
        following section:
``Sec. 654. Minimum service requirement for certain cyberspace 
              occupational specialties
    ``(a) Cyberspace Operations Officer.--The minimum service 
obligation for any member who successfully completes training in the 
armed forces in direct accession to the cyberspace operations officer 
occupational specialty of the Marine Corps shall be 8 years.
    ``(b) Service Obligation Defined.--In this section, the term 
`service obligation' means the period of active duty or, in the case of 
a member of a reserve component who completed cyberspace operations 
training in an active duty for training status as a member of a reserve 
component, the period of service in an active status in the Selected 
Reserve, required to be served after completion of cyberspace 
operations training.''.
            (2) Table of sections amendment.--The table of sections at 
        the beginning of such chapter 37 is amended by inserting after 
        the item relating to section 653 the following new item:

``654. Minimum service requirement for certain cyberspace occupational 
                            specialties.''.

SEC. 508. REMOVAL OF ACTIVE DUTY PROHIBITION FOR MEMBERS OF THE AIR 
              FORCE RESERVE POLICY COMMITTEE.

    Section 10305 of title 10, United States Code, is amended_
            (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``not on active duty'' 
        both places it appears; and
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by inserting ``of the reserve components'' 
                after ``among the members''; and
                    (B) by striking ``not on active duty''.

SEC. 509. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO VARY NUMBER OF SPACE FORCE OFFICERS 
              CONSIDERED FOR PROMOTION TO MAJOR GENERAL.

    Subsection (b) of section 503 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117-81; 135 Stat. 1680) is amended 
by striking ``shall terminate on December 31, 2022'' and inserting 
``shall terminate on December 31, 2024''.

SEC. 510. REALIGNMENT OF NAVY SPOT-PROMOTION QUOTAS.

    Section 605(g)(4)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``325'' and inserting ``425''.

SEC. 511. MODIFICATION OF LIMITATION ON PROMOTION SELECTION BOARD 
              RATES.

    Section 616 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) by striking ``The number'' and inserting ``(1) 
                Except as provided in paragraph (2), the number''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
    ``(2) If a promotion zone established under section 623 of this 
title includes less than 50 officers and is established with respect to 
promotions to a grade below the grade of colonel or Navy captain, the 
Secretary concerned may authorize selection boards convened under 
section 611(a) of this title to recommend for promotion a number equal 
to not more than 100 percent of the number of officers included in such 
promotion zone.''; and
            (2) in subsection (e), by striking ``unless he'' and 
        inserting ``unless the officer''.

SEC. 512. TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS.

    Section 1305 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(3), by inserting ``or a Marine Corps 
        Marine Gunner warrant officer in such grade,'' after ``chief 
        warrant officer, W-5,'';
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``when he'' and 
        inserting ``when the warrant officer''; and
            (3) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by striking ``as he'' and inserting ``as the 
                Secretary concerned''; and
                    (B) by striking ``after he'' and inserting ``after 
                the warrant officer''.

SEC. 513. FLEXIBILITY IN DETERMINING TERMS OF APPOINTMENT FOR CERTAIN 
              SENIOR OFFICER POSITIONS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 35 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 601 the following new section:
``Sec. 602. Flexibility in determining terms of appointment for certain 
              senior officer positions
    ``The Secretary of Defense may extend or reduce the duration of an 
appointment made under section 152, 154, 7033, 8033, 8043, 9033, and 
9082 of this title by up to six months if the Secretary determines that 
such an extension or reduction is necessary either in the interests of 
national defense, or to ensure an appropriate staggering of terms of 
senior military leadership.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 35 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 601 the following new item:

``602. Flexibility in determining terms of appointment for certain 
                            senior officer positions.''.

                Subtitle B--Reserve Component Management

SEC. 521. ALTERNATIVE PROMOTION AUTHORITY FOR RESERVE OFFICERS IN 
              DESIGNATED COMPETITIVE CATEGORIES.

    (a) In General.--Part III of subtitle E of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new chapter:

    ``CHAPTER 1413--ALTERNATIVE PROMOTION AUTHORITY FOR OFFICERS IN 
                   DESIGNATED COMPETITIVE CATEGORIES

``Sec.
``15101. Officers in designated competitive categories.
``15102. Selection for promotion.
``15103. Eligibility for consideration for promotion.
``15104. Opportunities for consideration for promotion.
``15105. Promotions.
``15106. Failure of selection for promotion.
``15107. Retirement: retirement for years of service; selective early 
                            retirement.
``15108. Continuation on the Reserve Active-Status List.
``15109. Other administrative authorities.
``15110. Regulations.
``Sec. 15101. Officers in designated competitive categories
    ``(a) Authority to Designate Competitive Categories of Officers.--
Each Secretary of a military department may designate one or more 
competitive categories for promotion of officers under section 14005 of 
this title that are under the jurisdiction of such Secretary as a 
competitive category of officers whose promotion, retirement, and 
continuation on the reserve active-status list shall be subject to the 
provisions of this chapter.
    ``(b) Limitation on Exercise of Authority.--The Secretary of a 
military department may not designate a competitive category of 
officers for purposes of this chapter until 60 days after the date on 
which the Secretary submits to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the designation of 
the competitive category. The report on the designation of a 
competitive category shall set forth the following:
            ``(1) A detailed description of officer requirements for 
        officers within the competitive category.
            ``(2) An explanation of the number of opportunities for 
        consideration for promotion to each particular grade, and an 
        estimate of promotion timing, within the competitive category.
            ``(3) An estimate of the size of the promotion zone for 
        each grade within the competitive category.
            ``(4) A description of any other matters the Secretary 
        considered in determining to designate the competitive category 
        for purposes of this chapter.
``Sec. 15102. Selection for promotion
    ``(a) In General.--Except as provided in this section, the 
selection for promotion of officers in any competitive category of 
officers designated for purposes of this chapter shall be governed by 
the provisions under chapter 1403 of this title.
    ``(b) No Recommendation for Promotion of Officers Below Promotion 
Zone.--Section 14301(d) of this title shall not apply to the selection 
for promotion of officers described in subsection (a).
    ``(c) Recommendation for Officers to Be Excluded From Future 
Consideration for Promotion.--In making recommendations pursuant to 
chapter 1403 of this title for purposes of the administration of this 
chapter, a selection board convened under section 14101(a) of this 
title may recommend that an officer considered by the board be excluded 
from future consideration for promotion under this chapter.
``Sec. 15103. Eligibility for consideration for promotion
    ``(a) In General.--Except as provided by this section, eligibility 
for promotion of officers in any competitive category of officers 
designated for purposes of this chapter shall be governed by the 
provisions of sections 14301, 14303, and 14304 of this title.
    ``(b) Inapplicability of Certain Time-in-grade Requirements.--
Sections 14303 and 14304 of this title shall not apply to the promotion 
of officers described in subsection (a).
    ``(c) Inapplicability to Officers Above and Below Promotion Zone.--
The following provisions of this title shall not apply to the promotion 
of officers described in subsection (a):
            ``(1) The reference in section 14301(b) to an officer above 
        the promotion zone.
            ``(2) Section 14301(d).
    ``(d) Ineligibility of Certain Officers.--The following officers 
are not eligible for promotion under this chapter:
            ``(1) An officer described in section 14301(c) of this 
        title.
            ``(2) An officer not included within the promotion zone.
            ``(3) An officer who has failed of promotion to a higher 
        grade the maximum number of times specified for opportunities 
        for promotion for such grade within the competitive category 
        concerned pursuant to section 15104 of this title.
            ``(4) An officer recommended by a selection board to be 
        removed from consideration for promotion in accordance with 
        section 15102(c) of this title.
``Sec. 15104. Opportunities for consideration for promotion
    ``(a) Specification of Number of Opportunities for Consideration 
for Promotion.--In designating a competitive category of officers 
pursuant to section 15101 of this title, the Secretary of a military 
department shall specify the number of opportunities for consideration 
for promotion to be afforded officers of the armed force concerned 
within the category for promotion to each grade above the grade of 
first lieutenant or lieutenant (junior grade), as applicable.
    ``(b) Limited Authority of Secretary of Military Department to 
Modify Number of Opportunities.--The Secretary of a military department 
may modify the number of opportunities for consideration for promotion 
to be afforded officers of an armed force within a competitive category 
for promotion to a particular grade, as previously specified by the 
Secretary pursuant subsection (a) of this subsection, not more 
frequently than once every five years.
    ``(c) Discretionary Authority of Secretary of Defense to Modify 
Number of Opportunities.--The Secretary of Defense may modify the 
number of opportunities for consideration for promotion to be afforded 
officers of an armed force within a competitive category for promotion 
to a particular grade, as previously specified or modified pursuant to 
any provision of this section, at the discretion of the Secretary.
    ``(d) Limitation on Number of Opportunities Specified.--The number 
of opportunities for consideration for promotion to be afforded 
officers of an armed force within a competitive category for promotion 
to a particular grade, as specified or modified pursuant to any 
provision of this section, may not exceed five opportunities.
    ``(e) Effect of Certain Reduction in Number of Opportunities 
Specified.--If, by reason of a reduction in the number of opportunities 
for consideration for promotion under this section, an officer would no 
longer have one or more opportunities for consideration for promotion 
that were available to the officer before the reduction, the officer 
shall be afforded one additional opportunity for consideration for 
promotion after the reduction.
``Sec. 15105. Promotions
    ``Sections 14307 through 14317 of this title shall apply in 
promotions of officers in competitive categories of officers designated 
for purposes of this chapter.
``Sec. 15106. Failure of selection for promotion
    ``(a) In General.--Except as provided in this section, sections 
14501 through 14513 of this title shall apply to promotions of officers 
in competitive categories of officers designated for purposes of this 
chapter.
    ``(b) Inapplicability of Failure of Selection for Promotion to 
Officers Above Promotion Zone.--The reference in section 14501 of this 
title to an officer above the promotion zone shall not apply in the 
promotion of officers described in subsection (a).
    ``(c) Special Selection Board Matters.--The reference in section 
14502(a)(1) of this title to a person above the promotion zone shall 
not apply in the promotion of officers described in subsection (a).
    ``(d) Effect of Failure of Selection.--In the administration of 
this chapter pursuant to subsection (a)--
            ``(1) an officer described in subsection (a) shall not be 
        deemed to have failed twice of selection for promotion for 
        purposes of section 14502(b) of this title until the officer 
        has failed selection of promotion to the next higher grade the 
        maximum number of times specified for opportunities for 
        promotion to such grade within the competitive category 
        concerned pursuant to section 15104 of this title; and
            ``(2) any reference in sections 14504 through 14506 of this 
        title to an officer who has failed of selection for promotion 
        to the next higher grade for the second time shall be deemed to 
        refer instead to an officer described in subsection (a) who has 
        failed of selection for promotion to the next higher grade for 
        the maximum number of times specified for opportunities for 
        promotion to such grade within the competitive category 
        concerned pursuant to such section 15104.
``Sec. 15107. Retirement: retirement for years of service; selective 
              early retirement
    ``(a) Retirement for Years of Service.--Sections 14507 through 
14515 of this title shall apply to the retirement of officers in 
competitive categories of officers designated for purposes of this 
chapter.
    ``(b) Selective Early Retirement.--Section 14101(b) of this title 
shall apply to the retirement of officers described in subsection (a).
``Sec. 15108. Continuation on the Reserve Active-Status List
    ``Sections 14701 through 14703 of this title shall apply in 
continuation or retention on a reserve active-status list of officers 
designated for purposes of this chapter.
``Sec. 15109. Other administrative authorities
    ``(a) In General.--The following provisions of this title shall 
apply to officers in competitive categories of officers designated for 
purposes of this chapter:
            ``(1) Section 14518, relating to continuation of officers 
        to complete disciplinary action.
            ``(2) Section 14519, relating to deferment of retirement or 
        separation for medical reasons.
            ``(3) Section 14704, relating to the selective early 
        removal from the reserve active-status list.
            ``(4) Section 14705, relating to the selective early 
        retirement of reserve general and flag officers of the Navy and 
        Marine Corps.
``Sec. 15110. Regulations
    ``The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations regarding 
the administration of this chapter. The elements of such regulations 
shall include mechanisms to clarify the manner in which provisions of 
other chapters of this part of the title shall be used in the 
administration of this chapter in accordance with the provisions of 
this chapter.''.
    (b) Table of Chapters Amendment.--The table of chapters at the 
beginning of part III of subtitle E of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``1413. Alternative promotion authority for officers in        15101''.
                            designated competitive 
                            categories.

SEC. 522. SELECTED RESERVE AND READY RESERVE ORDER TO ACTIVE DUTY TO 
              RESPOND TO A SIGNIFICANT CYBER INCIDENT.

    Section 12304 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``for any named 
        operational mission'';
            (2) by redesignating subsections (c) through (j) as 
        subsections (d) through (k), respectively;
            (3) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(c) Significant Cyber Incidents.--The Secretary of Defense and 
the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating 
may, without the consent of the member affected, order any unit, and 
any member not assigned to a unit organized to serve as a unit, of the 
Selected Reserve or Individual Ready Reserve to active duty for a 
continuous period of not more than 365 days when the Secretary of 
Defense or, with respect to the Coast Guard, the Secretary of the 
Department in which the Coast Guard is operating determines it is 
necessary to augment the active forces for the respective responses 
from the Department of Defense or the Department of Homeland Security 
to a covered incident.'';
            (4) in paragraph (1) of subsection (d), as redesignated by 
        paragraph (2) of this section, by inserting ``or subsection 
        (c)'' after ``subsection (b)'';
            (5) in subsection (h) (as so redesignated)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively;
                    (B) by striking ``Whenever any'' and inserting 
                ``(1) Whenever any''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
    ``(2) Whenever any unit of the Selected Reserve or any member of 
the Selected Reserve not assigned to a unit organized to serve as a 
unit, or any member of the Individual Ready Reserve, is ordered to 
active duty under authority of subsection (c), the service of all units 
or members so ordered to active duty may be terminated by--
            ``(A) order of the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of 
        the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating; or
            ``(B) law.''; and
            (6) in subsection (k) (as so redesignated)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph 
                (3); and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following 
                new paragraph:
            ``(2) The term `covered incident' means--
                    ``(A) a cyber incident involving a Department of 
                Defense information system, or a breach of a Department 
                of Defense system that involves personally identifiable 
                information, that the Secretary of Defense determines 
                is likely to result in demonstrable harm to the 
                national security interests, foreign relations, or the 
                economy of the United States, or to the public 
                confidence, civil liberties, or public health and 
                safety of the people of the United States;
                    ``(B) a cyber incident involving a Department of 
                Homeland Security information system or a breach of a 
                Department of Homeland Security system that involves 
                personally identifiable information that the Secretary 
                of Homeland Security determines is likely to result in 
                demonstrable harm to the national security interests, 
                foreign relations, or the economy of the United States 
                or to the public confidence, civil liberties, or public 
                health and safety of the people of the United States;
                    ``(C) a cyber incident or collection of related 
                cyber incidents that the President determines is likely 
                to result in demonstrable harm to the national security 
                interests, foreign relations, or economy of the United 
                States or to the public confidence, civil liberties, or 
                public health and safety of the people of the United 
                States; or
                    ``(D) a significant incident declared pursuant to 
                section 2233 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 
                U.S.C. 677b).''.

SEC. 523. MOBILIZATION OF SELECTED RESERVE FOR PREPLANNED MISSIONS IN 
              SUPPORT OF THE COMBATANT COMMANDS.

    Section 12304b(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as clauses 
        (i) and (ii), respectively;
            (2) by striking ``Units'' and inserting ``(A) Except as 
        provided under subparagraph (B), units''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(B) In the event the President's budget is delivered 
        later than April 1st in the year prior to the year of the 
        mobilization of one or more units under this section, the 
        Secretary concerned may submit to Congress the information 
        required under subparagraph (A) in a separate notice.''.

SEC. 524. ALTERNATING SELECTION OF OFFICERS OF THE NATIONAL GUARD AND 
              THE RESERVES AS DEPUTY COMMANDERS OF CERTAIN COMBATANT 
              COMMANDS.

    Section 164(e)(4) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(A)'' before ``At least one deputy 
        commander''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
    ``(B) In carrying out the requirement in subparagraph (A) 
pertaining to the selection of an officer of the reserve component, the 
Secretary of Defense shall alternate between selecting an officer of 
the National Guard and an officer of the Reserves no less frequently 
than every two terms.
    ``(C) The Secretary of Defense may waive the requirement under 
subparagraph (B) regarding the alternating selection of reserve 
component officers if the Secretary of Defense determines that such 
action is in the national interest.''.

SEC. 525. GRADE OF VICE CHIEF OF THE NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU.

    Section 10505 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Grade and Exclusion From General and Flag Officer Authorized 
Strength.--(1) The Vice Chief of the National Guard Bureau shall be 
appointed to serve in the grade of general.
    ``(2) The Secretary of Defense shall designate, pursuant to 
subsection (b) of section 526a of this title, the position of Vice 
Chief of the National Guard Bureau as one of the general officer and 
flag officer positions to be excluded from the limitations in 
subsection (a) of such section.''.

      Subtitle C--General Service Authorities and Military Records

SEC. 531. MODIFICATION OF LIMITATION ON ENLISTMENT AND INDUCTION OF 
              PERSONS WHOSE SCORE ON THE ARMED FORCES QUALIFICATION 
              TEST IS BELOW A PRESCRIBED LEVEL.

    Section 520(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The number of persons'' and inserting 
        ``(1) The number of persons'';
            (2) by striking ``may not exceed 20 percent'' and inserting 
        ``may not exceed 4 percent''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) Upon the request of the Secretary concerned, the Secretary of 
Defense may authorize an armed force to increase the limitation 
specified in paragraph (1) to not exceed 20 percent of the total number 
of persons originally enlisted or inducted to serve on active duty 
(other than active duty for training) in such armed forced during such 
fiscal year. The Secretary of Defense shall notify the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives not later 
than 30 days after using such authority.''.

SEC. 532. NON-MEDICAL COUNSELING SERVICES FOR MILITARY FAMILIES.

    Section 1781 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Non-medical Counseling Services.--(1) In carrying out its 
duties under subsection (b), the Office may coordinate programs and 
activities to provide non-medical counseling services to military 
families through the Department of Defense Military and Family Life 
Counseling Program.
    ``(2) A mental health care professional described in paragraph (3) 
may provide non-medical counseling services at any location in a State, 
the District of Columbia, or a territory or possession of the United 
States, without regard to where the professional or recipient of such 
services is located or delivery of such services is provided (including 
face-to-face and telehealth), if the provision of such services is 
within the scope of the authorized Federal duties of the professional.
    ``(3) A non-medical mental health professional described in this 
subsection is a person who is--
            ``(A) a currently licensed mental health care provider who 
        holds a license that is--
                    ``(i) issued by a State, the District of Columbia, 
                or a territory or possession of the United States; and
                    ``(ii) recognized by the Secretary of Defense as an 
                appropriate license for the provision of non-medical 
                counseling services;
            ``(B) a member of the armed forces, a civilian employee of 
        the Department of Defense, or a contractor designated by the 
        Secretary; and
            ``(C) performing authorized duties for the Department of 
        Defense under a program or activity referred to in paragraph 
        (1).
    ``(4) The authority under this subsection shall terminate three 
years after the date of the enactment of this subsection.
    ``(5) In this subsection, the term `non-medical counseling 
services' means mental health care services that are non-clinical, 
short-term and solution focused, and address topics related to personal 
growth, development, and positive functioning.''.

SEC. 533. PRIMACY OF NEEDS OF THE SERVICE IN DETERMINING INDIVIDUAL 
              DUTY ASSIGNMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 39 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 674 the following new section:
``Sec. 675. Primacy of needs of the service in determining individual 
              duty assignments
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretaries of the military departments 
shall make duty assignments of individual members based on the needs of 
the military services.
    ``(b) Assignments Based on Service Needs.--A servicemember's 
opinion on State laws shall not take precedence over the needs of the 
military services in determining individual duty assignments.
    ``(c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed as prohibiting the Secretaries of the military departments 
from considering the general preferences of members of the armed forces 
in making determinations about individual duty assignments.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
674 the following new item:

``675. Primacy of needs of the service in determining individual duty 
                            assignments.''.

SEC. 534. REQUIREMENT TO USE QUALIFICATIONS, PERFORMANCE, AND MERIT AS 
              BASIS FOR PROMOTIONS, ASSIGNMENTS, AND OTHER PERSONNEL 
              ACTIONS.

    The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that all promotions, 
assignments, and other personnel actions of the Armed Forces are based 
primarily on qualifications, performance, and merit.

SEC. 535. REQUIREMENT TO BASE TREATMENT IN THE MILITARY ON MERIT AND 
              PERFORMANCE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The United States Armed Forces is the greatest civil 
        rights program in the history of the world.
            (2) Former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs General Colin 
        Powell wrote that ``the military [has] given African-Americans 
        more equal opportunity than any other institution in American 
        society''.
            (3) Today's Armed Forces is the most diverse large public 
        institution in the country, and brings together Americans from 
        every background in the service of defending the country.
            (4) Military readiness depends on the guarantee of equal 
        opportunity, without the promise of an equal outcome, because 
        warfare is a competitive endeavor and the nation's enemies must 
        know that the United States Armed Forces is led by the best, 
        brightest, and bravest Americans.
            (5) The tenets of critical race theory are antithetical to 
        the merit-based, all-volunteer, military that has served the 
        country with great distinction for the last 50 years.
    (b) Definition of Equity.--For the purposes of any Department of 
Defense Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion directive, program, policy, or 
instruction, the term ``equity'' is defined as ``the right of all 
persons to have the opportunity to participate in, and benefit from, 
programs, and activities for which they are qualified''.
    (c) Prohibitions.--
            (1) Directives.--The Department of Defense shall not direct 
        or otherwise compel any member of the Armed Forces, military 
        dependent, or civilian employee of the Department of Defense to 
        personally affirm, adopt, or adhere to the tenet that any sex, 
        race, ethnicity, religion or national origin is inherently 
        superior or inferior.
            (2) Training and instruction.--No organization or 
        institution under the authority of the Secretary of Defense may 
        provide courses, training, or any other type of instruction 
        that directs, compels, or otherwise suggests that members of 
        the Armed Forces, military dependents, or civilian employees of 
        the Department of Defense should affirm, adopt, or adhere to 
        the tenet described in paragraph (1).
            (3) Distinctions and classifications.--
                    (A) In general.--No organization or institution 
                under the authority of the Secretary of Defense shall 
                make a distinction or classification of members of the 
                Armed Forces, military dependents, or civilian 
                employees of the Department of Defense based on account 
                of race, ethnicity, or national origin.
                    (B) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this 
                paragraph shall be construed to prohibit the required 
                collection or reporting of demographic information by 
                the Department of Defense.
    (d) Merit Requirement.--All Department of Defense personnel 
actions, including accessions, promotions, assignments and training, 
shall be based exclusively on individual merit and demonstrated 
performance.

SEC. 536. TIGER TEAM FOR OUTREACH TO FORMER MEMBERS.

    (a) Establishment of Tiger Team.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        establish a team (commonly known as a ``tiger team'' and 
        referred to in this section as the ``Tiger Team'') responsible 
        for conducting outreach to build awareness among former members 
        of the Armed Forces of the process established pursuant to 
        section 527 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92; 10 U.S.C. 1552 note) for 
        the review of discharge characterizations by appropriate 
        discharge boards. The Tiger Team shall consist of appropriate 
        personnel of the Department of Defense assigned to the Tiger 
        Team by the Secretary for purposes of this section.
            (2) Tiger team leader.--One of the persons assigned to the 
        Tiger Team under paragraph (1) shall be a senior-level officer 
        or employee of the Department who shall serve as the lead 
        official of the Tiger Team (in this section referred to as the 
        ``Tiger Team Leader'') and who shall be accountable for the 
        activities of the Tiger Team under this section.
            (3) Report on composition.--Not later than 90 days after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
        submit to Congress a report setting forth the names of the 
        personnel of the Department assigned to the Tiger Team pursuant 
        to this subsection, including the positions to which assigned. 
        The report shall specify the name of the individual assigned as 
        Tiger Team Leader.
    (b) Duties.--
            (1) In general.--The Tiger Team shall conduct outreach to 
        build awareness among veterans of the process established 
        pursuant to section 527 of the National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 2020 for the review of discharge 
        characterizations by appropriate discharge boards.
            (2) Collaboration.--In conducting activities under this 
        subsection, the Tiger Team Leader shall identify appropriate 
        external stakeholders with whom the Tiger Team shall work to 
        carry out such activities. Such stakeholders shall include 
        representatives of veterans service organizations and such 
        other stakeholders as the Tiger Team Leader considers 
        appropriate.
            (3) Initial report.--Not later than 210 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        submit to Congress the following:
                    (A) A plan setting forth the following:
                            (i) A description of the manner in which 
                        the Secretary, working through the Tiger Team 
                        and in collaboration with external stakeholders 
                        described in paragraph (2), shall identify 
                        individuals who meet the criteria in section 
                        527(b) of the National Defense Authorization 
                        Act for Fiscal Year 2020 for review of 
                        discharge characterization.
                            (ii) A description of the manner in which 
                        the Secretary, working through the Tiger Team 
                        and in collaboration with the external 
                        stakeholders, shall improve outreach to 
                        individuals who meet the criteria in section 
                        527(b) of the National Defense Authorization 
                        Act for Fiscal Year 2020 for review of 
                        discharge characterization, including through--
                                    (I) obtaining contact information 
                                on such individuals; and
                                    (II) contacting such individuals on 
                                the process established pursuant to 
                                section 527 of the National Defense 
                                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 
                                for the review of discharge 
                                characterizations.
                    (B) A description of the manner in which the work 
                described in clauses (i) and (ii) of subparagraph (A) 
                will be carried out, including an allocation of the 
                work among the Tiger Team and the external 
                stakeholders.
                    (C) A schedule for the implementation, carrying 
                out, and completion of the plan required under 
                subparagraph (A).
                    (D) A description of the additional funding, 
                personnel, or other resources of the Department 
                required to carry out the plan required under 
                subparagraph (A), including any modification of 
                applicable statutory or administrative authorities.
            (4) Implementation of plan.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall implement and 
                carry out the plan submitted under subparagraph (A) of 
                paragraph (3) in accordance with the schedule submitted 
                under subparagraph (C) of that paragraph.
                    (B) Updates.--Not less frequently than once every 
                90 days after the submittal of the report under 
                paragraph (3), the Tiger Team shall submit to Congress 
                an update on the carrying out of the plan submitted 
                under subparagraph (A) of that paragraph.
            (5) Final report.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Tiger Team shall submit to the 
        Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives a final report on the activities of the Tiger 
        Team under this subsection. The report shall set forth the 
        following:
                    (A) The number of individuals discharged under 
                Don't Ask, Don't Tell or a similar policy prior to the 
                enactment of Don't Ask, Don't Tell.
                    (B) The number of individuals described in 
                subparagraph (A) who availed themselves of a review of 
                discharge characterization (whether through discharge 
                review or correction of military records) through a 
                process established prior to the enactment of this Act.
                    (C) The number of individuals contacted through 
                outreach conducted pursuant to this section.
                    (D) The number of individuals described in 
                subparagraph (A) who availed themselves of a review of 
                discharge characterization through the process 
                established pursuant to section 527 of the National 
                Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020.
                    (E) The number of individuals described in 
                subparagraph (D) whose review of discharge 
                characterization resulted in a change of 
                characterization to honorable discharge.
                    (F) The total number of individuals described in 
                subparagraph (A), including individuals also covered by 
                subparagraph (E), whose review of discharge 
                characterization since September 20, 2011 (the date of 
                repeal of Don't Ask, Don't Tell), resulted in a change 
                of characterization to honorable discharge.
            (6) Termination.--On the date that is 60 days after the 
        date on which the final report required by paragraph (5) is 
        submitted, the Secretary shall terminate the Tiger Team.
    (c) Additional Reports.--
            (1) Review.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a 
        review of the consistency and uniformity of the reviews 
        conducted pursuant to section 527 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020.
            (2) Reports.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, and each year thereafter for a four-year 
        period, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the 
        reviews under paragraph (1). Such reports shall include any 
        comments or recommendations for continued actions.
    (d) Don't Ask, Don't Tell Defined.--In this section, the term 
``Don't Ask, Don't Tell'' means section 654 of title 10, United States 
Code, as in effect before such section was repealed pursuant to the 
Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-321).

SEC. 537. DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION PERSONNEL GRADE CAP.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary concerned may not appoint to, or 
otherwise employ in, any position with sole duties as described in 
subsection (b) a military or civilian employee paid annual pay at a 
rate that exceeds the equivalent of the rate payable for GS-10, not 
adjusted for locality.
    (b) Covered Duties.--The duties referred to in subsection (a) are 
as follows:
            (1) Developing, refining, and implementing diversity, 
        equity, and inclusion policy.
            (2) Leading working groups and councils to developing 
        diversity, equity, and inclusion goals and objectives to 
        measure performance and outcomes.
            (3) Creating and implementing diversity, equity, and 
        inclusion education, training courses, and workshops for 
        military and civilian personnel.
    (c) Applicability to Current Employees.--Any military or civilian 
employee appointed to a position with duties described in subsection 
(b) who is paid annual pay at a rate that exceeds the amount allowed 
under subsection (a) shall be reassigned to another position not later 
than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.

          Subtitle D--Military Justice and Other Legal Matters

SEC. 541. ESTABLISHMENT OF STAGGERED TERMS FOR MEMBERS OF THE MILITARY 
              JUSTICE REVIEW PANEL.

    (a) Appointment to Staggered Terms.--Subsection (b) of section 946 
of title 10, United States Code (article 146 of the Uniform Code of 
Military Justice), is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
            ``(4) Establishment of staggered terms.--Notwithstanding 
        subsection (e), members of the Panel appointed to serve on the 
        Panel to fill vacancies that exist due to terms of appointment 
        expiring during the period beginning on August 1, 2030, and 
        ending on August 31, 2030, shall be appointed to terms as 
        follows:
                    ``(A) Three members designated by the Secretary of 
                Defense shall serve a term of two years.
                    ``(B) Three members designated by the Secretary of 
                Defense shall serve a term of four years.
                    ``(C) Three members designated by the Secretary of 
                Defense shall serve a term of six years.
                    ``(D) Four members designated by the Secretary of 
                Defense shall serve a term of eight years.''.
    (b) Term; Vacancies.--Subsection (e) of such section is amended to 
read as follows:
    ``(e) Term; Vacancies.--
            ``(1) Term.--Subject to subsection (b)(4) and paragraphs 
        (2) and (3) of this subsection, each member shall be appointed 
        for a term of eight years, and no member may serve more than 
        one term.
            ``(2) Vacancy.--Any vacancy in the Panel shall be filled in 
        the same manner as the original appointment. A member appointed 
        to fill a vacancy in the Panel that occurs before the 
        expiration of the term of appointment of the predecessor of 
        such member shall be appointed for the remainder of the term of 
        such predecessor.
            ``(3) Availability of reappointment for certain members.--
        Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a member of the Panel may be 
        appointed to a single additional term if--
                    ``(A) the appointment of the member is to fill a 
                vacancy described in subsection (b)(4); or
                    ``(B) the member was initially appointed to--
                            ``(i) a term of four years or less in 
                        accordance with subsection (b)(4); or
                            ``(ii) fill a vacancy that occurs before 
                        the expiration of the term of the predecessor 
                        of such member and for which the remainder of 
                        the term of such predecessor is four years or 
                        less.''.

SEC. 542. TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO THE UNIFORM CODE OF 
              MILITARY JUSTICE.

    (a) Technical Amendment Relating to Guilty Pleas for Murder.--
Section 918 of title 10, United States Code (article 118 of the Uniform 
Code of Military Justice), is amended--
            (1) by striking ``he'' both places it appears and inserting 
        ``such person''; and
            (2) in the matter following paragraph (4), by striking the 
        period and inserting ``, unless such person is otherwise 
        sentenced in accordance with a plea agreement entered into 
        between the parties under section 853a (article 53a).''.
    (b) Technical Amendments Relating to the Military Justice Reforms 
in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022.--
            (1) Article 16.--Subsection (c)(2)(A) of section 816 of 
        title 10, United States Code (article 16 of the Uniform Code of 
        Military Justice), is amended by striking ``by the convening 
        authority''.
            (2) Article 25.--Section 825 of title 10, United States 
        Code (article 25 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (d)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``may, 
                        after the findings are announced and before any 
                        matter is presented in the sentencing phase, 
                        request, orally on the record or in writing, 
                        sentencing by the members'' and inserting 
                        ``shall be sentenced by the military judge''; 
                        and
                            (ii) by amending paragraph (2) to read as 
                        follows:
            ``(2) In a capital case, if the accused is convicted of an 
        offense for which the court-martial may sentence the accused to 
        death, the accused shall be sentenced in accordance with 
        section 853(c) of this title (article 53(c)).'';
                    (B) in subsection (e)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``him'' 
                        and inserting ``the member being tried''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2)--
                                    (I) in the first sentence, by 
                                striking ``his opinion'' and inserting 
                                ``the opinion of the convening 
                                authority''; and
                                    (II) in the second sentence, by 
                                striking ``he'' and inserting ``the 
                                member''; and
                    (C) in subsection (f)--
                            (i) by striking ``his authority'' and 
                        inserting ``the authority of the convening 
                        authority''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``his staff judge advocate 
                        or legal officer'' and inserting ``the staff 
                        judge advocate or legal officer of the 
                        convening authority''.
    (c) Authority of Special Trial Counsel With Respect to Certain 
Offenses Occurring Before Effective Date of Military Justice Reforms 
Enacted in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2022.--
            (1) Authority.--Section 824a of title 10, United States 
        Code, as added by section 531 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117-81), is 
        amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Special Trial Counsel Authority Over Certain Other 
Offenses.--
            ``(1) Offenses occurring before effective date.--A special 
        trial counsel may, at the sole and exclusive discretion of the 
        special trial counsel, exercise authority over the following 
        offenses:
                    ``(A) An offense under section 917a (article 117a), 
                918 (article 118), section 919 (article 119), section 
                920 (article 120), section 920b (article 120b), section 
                920c (article 120c), section 928b (article 128b), or 
                the standalone offense of child pornography punishable 
                under section 934 (article 134) of this title that 
                occurred on or before December 27, 2023.
                    ``(B) An offense under section 925 (article 125), 
                section 930 (article 130), or section 932 (article 132) 
                of this title that occurred on or after January 1, 
                2019, and before December 28, 2023.
                    ``(C) An offense under section 920a (article 120a) 
                of this title, an offense under section 925 (article 
                125) of this title alleging an act of nonconsensual 
                sodomy, or the standalone offense of kidnapping 
                punishable under section 934 (article 134) of this 
                title that occurred before January 1, 2019.
                    ``(D) A conspiracy to commit an offense specified 
                in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) as punishable under 
                section 881 of this title (article 81).
                    ``(E) A solicitation to commit an offense specified 
                in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) as punishable under 
                section 882 of this title (article 82).
                    ``(F) An attempt to commit an offense specified in 
                subparagraph (A), (B), (C), (D), or (E) as punishable 
                under section 880 of this title (article 80).
            ``(2) Effect of exercise of authority.--
                    ``(A) Treatment as covered offense.--If a special 
                trial counsel exercises authority over an offense 
                pursuant to paragraph (1), the offense over which the 
                special trial counsel exercises authority shall be 
                considered a covered offense for purposes of this 
                chapter.
                    ``(B) Known or related offenses.--If a special 
                trial counsel exercises authority over an offense 
                pursuant to paragraph (1), the special trial counsel 
                may exercise the authority of the special trial counsel 
                under subparagraph (B) of subsection (c)(2) with 
                respect to other offenses described in that 
                subparagraph without regard to the date on which the 
                other offenses occur.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment to effective date.--Section 
        539C(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2022 (10 U.S.C. 801 note; Public Law 117-81) is amended by 
        striking ``and shall'' and inserting ``and, except as provided 
        in section 824a(d) of title 10, United States Code (article 24a 
        of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), shall''.
    (d) Clarification of Applicability of Domestic Violence and 
Stalking to Dating Partners.--
            (1) Article 128b; domestic violence.--Section 928b of title 
        10, United States Code (article 128b of the Uniform Code of 
        Military Justice), is amended--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``Any person'' and inserting ``(a) In 
                General.--Any person'';
                    (B) in subsection (a), as designated by paragraph 
                (1) of this section, by inserting ``a dating partner,'' 
                after ``an intimate partner,'' each place it appears; 
                and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subsection:
    ``(b) Definitions.--In this section (article), the terms `dating 
partner', `immediate family', and `intimate partner' have the meaning 
given such terms in section 930 of this title (article 130 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice).''.
            (2) Article 130; stalking.--Section 930 of such title 
        (article 130 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``or to his or 
                her intimate partner'' each place it appears and 
                inserting ``to his or her intimate partner, or to his 
                or her dating partner''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through 
                        (5) as paragraphs (4) through (6), 
                        respectively; and
                            (ii) by inserting after paragraph (2) the 
                        following new paragraph:
            ``(3) The term `dating partner', in the case of a specific 
        person, means a person who is or has been in a social 
        relationship of a romantic or intimate nature with such 
        specific person based on a consideration of--
                    ``(A) the length of the relationship;
                    ``(B) the type of relationship;
                    ``(C) the frequency of interaction between the 
                persons involved in the relationship; and
                    ``(D) the extent of physical intimacy or sexual 
                contact between the persons involved in the 
                relationship.''.
    (e) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (b) and 
subsection (c)(1) shall take effect immediately after the coming into 
effect of the amendments made by part 1 of subtitle D of title V of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 
117-81) as provided in section 539C of that Act (10 U.S.C. 801 note).

SEC. 543. ANNUAL REPORT ON INITIATIVE TO ENHANCE THE CAPABILITY OF 
              MILITARY CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIVE ORGANIZATIONS TO PREVENT 
              AND COMBAT CHILD SEXUAL EXPLOITATION.

    In order to effectively carry out the initiative under section 550D 
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public 
Law 116-92; 10 U.S.C. 1561 note prec.), the Secretary of Defense shall 
carry out the following actions:
            (1) Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, and annually thereafter, submit to the Committee 
        on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed 
        Services of the House of Representatives an annual report on 
        the progress of the initiative carried out under such section, 
        outlining specific actions taken and planned to detect, combat, 
        and stop the use of the Department of Defense network to 
        further online child sexual exploitation (CSE).
            (2) Develop partnerships and execute collaborative 
        agreements with functional experts, including highly qualified 
        national child protection organizations or law enforcement 
        training centers with demonstrated expertise in the delivery of 
        law enforcement training, to identify, investigate and 
        prosecute individuals engaged in online CSE.
            (3) Establish mandatory training for Department of Defense 
        criminal investigative organizations and personnel at military 
        installations to maintain capacity and address turnover and 
        relocation issues.

           Subtitle E--Member Education, Training, Transition

SEC. 551. FUTURE SERVICEMEMBER PREPARATORY COURSE.

    (a) Requirement.--If the number of nonprior service enlisted 
personnel covered under section 520 of title 10, United States Code, 
exceeds 10 percent of the total number of persons originally enlisted 
in an Armed Force during a fiscal year, the Secretary concerned shall 
establish a future servicemember preparatory course within the Armed 
Force concerned.
    (b) Purpose.--The course established under subsection (a) shall be 
designed to improve the physical and aptitude qualifications of 
military recruits.
    (c) Criteria.--Each course established under this section shall 
comply with the following requirements:
            (1) Enrollment.--All nonprior service enlisted persons 
        whose score on the Armed Forces Qualification Test is at or 
        above the twentieth percentile and below the thirty-first 
        percentile must be enrolled in the course prior to attending 
        initial basic training.
            (2) Graduation requirement.--Prior to attending initial 
        basic training, all enlisted persons attending the course 
        established under this section must achieve a score that 
        exceeds the thirty-first percentile of the Armed Forces 
        Qualification Test.
            (3) Effect of course failure.--Any enlisted person who 
        fails to achieve course graduation requirements within 180 days 
        of enlistment shall be separated under regulations prescribed 
        by the Secretary concerned.

SEC. 552. DETERMINATION OF ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE COMMITMENT FOR 
              RECIPIENTS OF FELLOWSHIPS, GRANTS, AND SCHOLARSHIPS.

    Section 2603(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``at least three times the length of the period of the 
education or training.'' and inserting ``determined by the Secretary 
concerned. Notwithstanding sections 2004(c), 2004a(f), and 2004b(e) of 
this title, the service obligation required under this subsection may 
run concurrently with any service obligations incurred under chapter 
101 of this title in accordance with regulations established by the 
Secretary concerned.''.

SEC. 553. MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMY PROFESSIONAL SPORTS PATHWAY REPORT 
              AND LEGISLATIVE PROPOSAL REQUIRED.

    (a) Legislative Proposal.--Not later than March 1, 2024, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services 
of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report including the 
following elements:
            (1) A legislative proposal that would--
                    (A) update and clarify the legislative framework 
                related to the ability of military service academy 
                graduates to pursue employment as a professional 
                athlete prior to serving at least 5 years on active 
                duty; and
                    (B) retain the existing requirement that all 
                military service academy graduates must serve for 2 
                years on active duty before affiliating with the 
                reserves to pursue employment as a professional 
                athlete.
            (2) A description of amendments to current law that would 
        be necessary to implement the legislative proposal described 
        under paragraph (1).
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than March 1, 2024, and annually 
thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall provide to the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
that includes the following information:
            (1) The name, military service, and sport of each military 
        service graduate released or deferred from active service in 
        order to participate in professional sports.
            (2) A description of the sports career progress of each 
        participant, such as drafted, signed, released, or returned to 
        military service.
            (3) A summary by participant of marketing strategy and 
        recruiting related activities conducted.
            (4) A description by participant of the assessments 
        conducted by the military services to determine the recruiting 
        value associated with approved releases from active duty.
            (5) The current status of each participant, including, as 
        appropriate, affiliated franchise.

SEC. 554. COMMUNITY COLLEGE ENLISTED TRAINING CORPS DEMONSTRATION 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Demonstration Program.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than August 1, 2025, the 
        Secretary concerned shall establish within each military 
        department an Enlisted Training Corps demonstration program for 
        the purpose of introducing students to the military, and 
        preparing selected students for enlisted service in the Army, 
        Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Space Force.
            (2) Location.--Demonstration programs established under 
        this section shall be located at a community or junior college. 
        No program may be established at a military college or military 
        junior college as defined for purposes of section 2107a of 
        title 10, United States Code.
    (b) Eligibility for Membership.--To be eligible for membership in a 
program under this section, a person must be a student at an 
institution where a unit of the Enlisted Training Corps is located.
    (c) Instructors.--The Secretary concerned may assign as an 
instructor for a unit established under this section an individual 
eligible to serve as an instructor under section 2111 or section 2031 
of title 10, United States Code. Instructors who are not currently 
members on active duty shall be paid in a manner consistent with 
section 2031 of title 10, United States Code.
    (d) Financial Assistance.--The Secretary of the military department 
concerned may provide financial assistance to persons enrolled in a 
unit of the Enlisted Training Corps in exchange for an agreement in 
writing that the person enlist in the active component of the military 
department concerned upon graduation or disenrollment from the 
community college. Financial assistance provided under this subsection 
may include tuition, living expenses, stipend, or other payment.
    (e) Curriculum.--The Secretary concerned shall ensure that any 
programs created under this section include as part of the curriculum 
the following:
            (1) An introduction to the benefits of military service.
            (2) Military history.
            (3) Military customs and courtesies.
            (4) Physical fitness requirements.
            (5) Instruction on ethical behavior and decisionmaking.
    (f) Reporting Requirement.--Not later than one year after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter until the date 
specified by subsection (g), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on the status of the demonstration program 
required by this section.
    (g) Sunset.--The requirements of this provision shall sunset on 
September 30, 2030.

SEC. 555. LANGUAGE TRAINING CENTERS FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND 
              CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    Section 529 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 10 U.S.C. 2001 note prec.) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``may carry out a 
        program'' and inserting ``shall carry out a program'';
            (2) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f);
            (3) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(e) Contract Authority.--The Secretary of Defense may enter into 
one or more contracts, cooperative agreements, or grants with private 
national organizations having an expertise in foreign languages, area 
studies, and other international fields, for the awarding of grants to 
accredited universities, senior military colleges, or other similar 
institutions of higher education to establish and maintain language 
training centers authorized by subsection (a).''; and
            (4) in subsection (f), as redesignated by paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``one year after the date of the 
                establishment of the program authorized by subsection 
                (a)'' and inserting ``180 days after the date of the 
                enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
                Fiscal Year 2024'';
                    (B) by striking ``report on the program'' and 
                inserting ``report on the Language Training Center 
                program'';
                    (C) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph 
                (5);
                    (D) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following 
                new paragraph:
            ``(4) An assessment of the resources required to carry out 
        the Language Training Center program by year through fiscal 
        year 2027.''; and
                    (E) in paragraph (5), as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (C), by striking ``A recommendation 
                whether the program should be continued and, if so, 
                recommendations as to any modifications of the 
                program'' and inserting ``Recommendations as to any 
                modifications to the Language Training Center 
                program''.

SEC. 556. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR RELOCATION OF ARMY 
              CID SPECIAL AGENT TRAINING COURSE.

    (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act for fiscal year 2024 for the Army to relocate an Army CID 
special agent training course may be obligated or expended until--
            (1) the Secretary of the Army submits to the Committees on 
        Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
        separate report on any plans of the Secretary to relocate an 
        Army CID special agent training course, including an 
        explanation of the business case for any transfer of training 
        personnel proposed as part of such plan; and
            (2) the Secretary provides to the Committees on Armed 
        Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
        briefing on the contents of the report specified in paragraph 
        (1).
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``relocate'', when used with respect to an 
        Army CID special agent training course, means the transfer of 
        such course to a location different than the location used for 
        such course as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) The term ``Army CID special agent training course'' 
        means a training course provided to members of the Army to 
        prepare such members for service as special agents in the Army 
        Criminal Investigation Division.

SEC. 557. ARMY PHYSICAL FITNESS TEST.

    (a) In General.--The physical fitness test of record for the United 
States Army in compliance with Department of Defense Instruction 
1308.03, or any successor regulation, is the Army Physical Fitness Test 
according to the grading and evaluation scale as it existed on January 
1, 2020. This test shall be the baseline test of physical fitness for 
members of the Army and administered at least annually, except when 
operational requirements or contingency operations would make such test 
administration impracticable.
    (b) Updates and Modifications.--Notwithstanding subsection (a), the 
Army may update, replace, or modify the events and scoring standards in 
the Army Physical Fitness Test as the needs of the Army require after a 
robust pilot and testing period of at least 24 months. Such 
modifications shall not take effect until the date that is one year 
after the Secretary of the Army has provided a briefing on the planned 
changes to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House 
of Representatives.
    (c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section prohibits the 
Army from using the Army Combat Fitness Test, or any other physical 
assessment the Army may develop, as a supplemental tool to assess 
physical fitness for all or parts of the force. Army Commanders may 
also require higher standards than the Army-wide grading scale for 
promotions, awards, schools and similar actions. Such supplemental 
assessment shall not constitute the baseline physical fitness 
assessment of record for the Army unless it is incorporated into the 
Army Physical Fitness Test using the procedure described in subsection 
(b).

SEC. 558. OPT-OUT SHARING OF INFORMATION ON MEMBERS RETIRING OR 
              SEPARATING FROM THE ARMED FORCES WITH COMMUNITY-BASED 
              ORGANIZATIONS AND RELATED ENTITIES.

    Section 570F of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92; 10 U.S.C. 1142 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by striking ``out the form to indicate an email 
                address'' and inserting the following: ``out the form 
                to indicate--
            ``(1) an email address; and''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(2) if the individual would like to opt-out of the 
        transmittal of the individual's information to and through a 
        State veterans agency as described in subsection (a).''; and
            (2) by amending subsection (d) to read as follows:
    ``(d) Opt-out of Information Sharing.--Information on an individual 
shall be transmitted to and through a State veterans agency as 
described in subsection (a) unless the individual indicates pursuant to 
subsection (c)(2) that the individual would like to opt out of such 
transmittal.''.

SEC. 559. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM TO PROMOTE PARTICIPATION OF FOREIGN 
              STUDENTS IN THE SENIOR RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than January 1, 2025, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall establish a program using the 
        authority provided under section 2103(b) of title 10, United 
        States Code, to promote the participation of foreign students 
        in the Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps (in this section 
        referred to as the ``Program'').
            (2) Organization.--The Secretary of Defense, in 
        consultation with the Director of the Defense Security 
        Cooperation Agency, the Secretaries of the military 
        departments, the commanders of the combatant commands, the 
        participant institutions in the Senior Reserve Officers' 
        Training Corps program, and any other individual the Secretary 
        of Defense considers appropriate, shall be responsible for, and 
        shall oversee, the Program.
    (b) Objective.--The objective of the Program is to promote the 
readiness and interoperability of the United States Armed Forces and 
the military forces of partner countries by providing a high-quality, 
cost effective military-based educational experience for foreign 
students in furtherance of the military-to-military program objectives 
of the Department of Defense and to enhance the educational experience 
and preparation of future United States military leaders through 
increased, extended interaction with highly qualified potential foreign 
military leaders.
    (c) Activities.--
            (1) In general.--Under the Program, the Secretary of 
        Defense shall--
                    (A) identify to the military services' Senior 
                Reserve Officers' Training Corps program the foreign 
                students who, based on criteria established by the 
                Secretary, the Secretary recommends be considered for 
                admission under the Program;
                    (B) coordinate with partner countries to evaluate 
                interest in and promote awareness of the Program;
                    (C) establish a mechanism for tracking an alumni 
                network of foreign students who participate in the 
                Program; and
                    (D) to the extent practicable, work with the 
                participant institutions in the Senior Reserve 
                Officers' Training Corps program and partner countries 
                to identify academic institutions and programs that--
                            (i) have specialized academic programs in 
                        areas of study of interest to participating 
                        countries; or
                            (ii) have high participation from or 
                        significant diaspora populations from 
                        participating countries.
    (d) Strategy.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than September 30, 2024, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committee on Armed 
        Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of 
        the House of Representatives a strategy for the implementation 
        of the Program.
            (2) Elements.--The strategy required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following elements:
                    (A) A governance structure for the Program, 
                including--
                            (i) the officials tasked to oversee the 
                        Program;
                            (ii) the format of the governing body of 
                        the Program;
                            (iii) the functions and duties of such 
                        governing body with respect to establishing and 
                        maintaining the Program; and
                            (iv) mechanisms for coordinating with 
                        partner countries whose students are selected 
                        to participate in the Program.
                    (B) A list of additional authorities, 
                appropriations, or other congressional support 
                necessary to ensure the success of the Program.
                    (C) A description of targeted partner countries and 
                participant institutions in the Senior Reserve 
                Officers' Training Corps for the first three fiscal 
                years of the Program, including a rationale for 
                selecting such initial partners.
                    (D) A description of opportunities and potential 
                timelines for future Program expansion, as appropriate.
                    (E) A description of the mechanism for tracking the 
                alumni network of participants of the Program.
                    (F) Any other information the Secretary of Defense 
                considers appropriate.
    (e) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than September 20, 2025, and 
        annually thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
        the congressional defense committees (as defined in section 101 
        of title 10, United States Code) a report on the Program.
            (2) Elements.--Each report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following elements:
                    (A) A narrative summary of activities conducted as 
                part of the Program during the preceding fiscal year.
                    (B) An overview of participant Senior Reserve 
                Officers' Training Corps programs, individuals, and 
                countries, to include a description of the areas of 
                study entered into by the students participating in the 
                Program.
                    (C) A description of opportunities and potential 
                timelines for future Program expansion, as appropriate.
                    (D) Any other information the Secretary of Defense 
                considers appropriate.
    (f) Limitation on Authority.--The Secretary of Defense may not use 
the authority provided under this section to pay for tuition or room 
and board for foreign students who participate in the Program.
    (g) Termination.--The Program shall terminate on December 31, 2029.

SEC. 560. CONSIDERATION OF STANDARDIZED TEST SCORES IN MILITARY SERVICE 
              ACADEMY APPLICATION PROCESS.

    The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the United States 
Military Academy, the United States Naval Academy, and the United 
States Air Force Academy require the submission and consideration of 
standardized test scores as part of the their application processes.

SEC. 560A. EXTENSION OF TROOPS FOR TEACHERS PROGRAM TO THE JOB CORPS.

    Section 1154 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by striking 
                        ``; or'' and inserting s semicolon;
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking the 
                        period at the end and inserting ``; or''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following 
                        new subparagraph:
                    ``(C) a Job Corps center as defined in section 147 
                of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 
                U.S.C. 3197).''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``; 
                        or'' and inserting s semicolon;
                            (ii) in subparagraph (C), by striking the 
                        period at the end and inserting ``; or''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following 
                        new subparagraph:
                    ``(D) a Job Corps center as defined in section 147 
                of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 
                U.S.C. 3197).'';
            (2) in subsection (d)(4)(A)(ii), by inserting ``or Job 
        Corps centers'' after ``secondary schools''; and
            (3) in subsection (e)(2)(E), by inserting ``or Job Corps 
        center'' after ``secondary school''.

    Subtitle F--Military Family Readiness and Dependents' Education

SEC. 561. PILOT PROGRAM ON RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION OF EMPLOYEES FOR 
              CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may develop and implement 
a pilot program to assess the effectiveness of increasing compensation 
for employees of child development programs on military installations 
in improving the ability of such programs to recruit and retain such 
employees.
    (b) Compensation.--If the Secretary implements the pilot program 
authorized by subsection (a), the Secretary shall provide for the 
payment of compensation to employees of child development programs 
under the pilot program at a fair and competitive wage in keeping with 
market conditions.
    (c) Selection of Locations.--
            (1) In general.--If the Secretary implements the pilot 
        program authorized by subsection (a), the Secretary shall 
        select not fewer than five military installations for purposes 
        of carrying out the pilot program.
            (2) Considerations.--In selecting military installations 
        under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consider military 
        installations with child development programs--
                    (A) with a shortage of qualified employees; or
                    (B) subject to other conditions identified by the 
                Secretary that affect the ability of the programs to 
                operate at full capacity.
    (d) Regulations.--The Secretary may prescribe such regulations as 
are necessary to carry out this section.
    (e) Duration of Pilot Program.--If the Secretary implements the 
pilot program authorized by subsection (a), the pilot program shall--
            (1) commence on the date on which the Secretary prescribes 
        regulations under subsection (d); and
            (2) terminate on the date that is 3 years after the date 
        described in paragraph (1).
    (f) Briefings Required.--
            (1) Initial briefing.--If the Secretary implements the 
        pilot program authorized by subsection (a), the Secretary 
        shall, when the pilot program commences in accordance with 
        subsection (e)(1), brief the Committees on Armed Services of 
        the Senate and the House of Representatives on--
                    (A) the military installations selected under 
                subsection (c) for purposes of carrying out the pilot 
                program; and
                    (B) the data that informed those selections.
            (2) Final briefing.--If the Secretary implements the pilot 
        program authorized by subsection (a), the Secretary shall, not 
        later than 180 days before the pilot program terminates in 
        accordance with subsection (e)(2), brief the Committees on 
        Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives 
        on the outcomes and findings of the pilot program, including--
                    (A) data collected and analyses conducted under the 
                pilot program with respect to the relationship between 
                increased compensation for employees of child 
                development programs and improved recruitment or 
                retention of those employees; and
                    (B) any recommendations with respect to increases 
                in compensation for employees of child development 
                programs across the Department of Defense as a result 
                of the pilot program.
    (g) Child Development Program Defined.--In this section, the term 
``child development program'' means a program to provide child care 
services for children, between birth through 12 years of age, of 
members of the Armed Forces and civilian employees of the Department of 
Defense.

SEC. 562. CERTAIN ASSISTANCE TO LOCAL EDUCATIONAL AGENCIES THAT BENEFIT 
              DEPENDENTS OF MILITARY AND CIVILIAN PERSONNEL.

    (a) Continuation of Authority to Assist Local Educational Agencies 
That Benefit Dependents of Members of the Armed Forces and Department 
of Defense Civilian Employees.--
            (1) Assistance to schools with significant numbers of 
        military dependent students.--Of the amount authorized to be 
        appropriated for fiscal year 2024 by section 301 and available 
        for operation and maintenance for Defense-wide activities as 
        specified in the funding table in section 4301, $50,000,000 
        shall be available only for the purpose of providing assistance 
        to local educational agencies under subsection (a) of section 
        572 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
        2006 (Public Law 109-163; 20 U.S.C. 7703b).
            (2) Local educational agency defined.--In this subsection, 
        the term ``local educational agency'' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 7013(9) of the Elementary and Secondary 
        Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7713(9)).
    (b) Impact Aid for Children With Severe Disabilities.--
            (1) In general.--Of the amount authorized to be 
        appropriated for fiscal year 2024 pursuant to section 301 and 
        available for operation and maintenance for Defense-wide 
        activities as specified in the funding table in section 4301, 
        $10,000,000 shall be available for payments under section 363 
        of the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2001 (as enacted into law by Public Law 106-398; 
        114 Stat. 1654A-77; 20 U.S.C. 7703a).
            (2) Additional amount.--Of the amount authorized to be 
        appropriated for fiscal year 2024 pursuant to section 301 and 
        available for operation and maintenance for Defense-wide 
        activities as specified in the funding table in section 4301, 
        $20,000,000 shall be available for use by the Secretary of 
        Defense to make payments to local educational agencies 
        determined by the Secretary to have higher concentrations of 
        military children with severe disabilities.
            (3) Report.--Not later than March 31, 2024, the Secretary 
        shall brief the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
        the House of Representatives on the Department's evaluation of 
        each local educational agency with higher concentrations of 
        military children with severe disabilities and subsequent 
        determination of the amounts of impact aid each such agency 
        shall receive.

SEC. 563. MODIFICATIONS TO ASSISTANCE TO LOCAL EDUCATIONAL AGENCIES 
              THAT BENEFIT DEPENDENTS OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES 
              WITH ENROLLMENT CHANGES DUE TO BASE CLOSURES, FORCE 
              STRUCTURE CHANGES, OR FORCE RELOCATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 575 of the James M. Inhofe National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (20 U.S.C. 7703d) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``year, the local educational 
                agency'' and all that follows through ``(as 
                determined'' and inserting ``year, the local 
                educational agency had (as determined'';
                    (B) by striking paragraph (2);
                    (C) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as 
                paragraphs (1) and (2), respectively, and by moving 
                such paragraphs, as so redesignated, two ems to the 
                left; and
                    (D) in paragraph (2), as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (C), by striking ``; or'' and inserting a 
                period;
            (2) in subsection (f)--
                    (A) by striking ``The Secretary of Defense'' and 
                inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through 
        the Director of the Office of Local Defense Community 
        Cooperation,''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Method of disbursement.--The Director shall make 
        disbursements under paragraph (1) using existing authorities of 
        the Office.'';
            (3) by striking subsection (h); and
            (4) by redesignating subsections (i) and (j) as subsections 
        (h) and (i), respectively.
    (b) Briefing Required.--Not later than March 1, 2024, the Director 
of the Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation shall brief the 
Committees of the Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives on--
            (1) any additional authorities that would be helpful to the 
        Office in its efforts to better support local educational 
        agencies; and
            (2) any actions taken to implement the recommendations 
        outlined in the March 2008 report entitled ``Update to the 
        Report on Assistance to Local Educational Agencies for Defense 
        Dependents Education'' and required by section 574(c) of the 
        John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
        2007 (Public Law 109-364; 120 Stat. 2227) (as in effect on the 
        date of the enactment of that Act).

SEC. 564. ASSISTANCE FOR MILITARY SPOUSES TO OBTAIN DOULA 
              CERTIFICATIONS.

    Section 1784a of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Doula Certifications.--In carrying out the programs 
authorized by subsection (a), the Secretary shall provide assistance to 
the spouse of a member of the armed forces described in subsection (b) 
in obtaining a doula certification provided by an organization that 
receives reimbursement under the extramedical maternal health providers 
demonstration project required by section 746 of the William M. (Mac) 
Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 
(Public Law 116-283; 10 U.S.C. 1073 note).''.

          Subtitle G--Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps

SEC. 571. EXPANSION OF JUNIOR RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS.

    Section 2031 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
                    (A) by striking ``The President shall promulgate'' 
                and inserting ``The Secretary of Defense shall 
                promulgate''; and
                    (B) by striking ``maintained, and shall provide'' 
                and all that follows through the period at the end and 
                inserting ``maintained.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(g)(1) The Secretary of Defense shall establish and support not 
less than 3,400, and not more than 4,000, units of the Junior Reserve 
Officers' Training Corps.
    ``(2) The requirement under paragraph (1) shall not apply--
            ``(A) if the Secretary fails to receive an adequate number 
        of requests for Junior Reserve Officer's Training Corps units 
        by public and private secondary educational institutions; and
            ``(B) during a time of national emergency when the 
        Secretaries of the military departments determine that funding 
        must be allocated elsewhere.''.

SEC. 572. JROTC PROGRAM CERTIFICATION.

    Section 2031 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(i)(1) The Secretary of Defense may suspend or place on probation 
a Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps unit that fails to comply 
with provisions of the standardized memorandum of understanding 
required pursuant to subsection (b).
    ``(2) Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of 
this subsection, and annually thereafter for four years, the Secretary 
of Defense shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the 
Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
Representatives a report including information on units suspended or 
placed on probation pursuant to this subsection and a justification for 
the reinstatement of any such unit.
    ``(3) A unit may be placed on probation for a period of up to three 
years for failing to comply with the provisions of the standardized 
memorandum of understanding or any other requirement in this section. A 
unit may be suspended if, after the three-year probationary period, 
such unit remains out of compliance with the requirements of this 
section, and the Secretary of the military department concerned 
determines that such suspension is necessary to mitigate program 
deficiencies or to protect the safety of program participants.''.

SEC. 573. MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING REQUIRED.

    Section 2031(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (5) as 
        subparagraphs (A) through (E);
            (2) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(b)'';
            (3) in subparagraph (A), as redesignated by paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``(A)'' and inserting ``(i)''; and
                    (B) by striking ``(B)'' and inserting ``(ii)'';
            (4) by amending subparagraph (E), as so redesignated, to 
        read as follows: ``the unit meets such other requirements as 
        the Secretary of the military department concerned proscribes 
        in the memorandum of understanding required under this 
        subsection.''; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) The Secretary of Defense shall issue regulations establishing 
a standardized memorandum of understanding to be signed by the 
Secretary of the military department concerned and each institution 
operating a unit under this section. The memorandum shall address the 
following matters:
            ``(A) A requirement for institutions to notify the 
        appropriate armed force of allegations of misconduct against an 
        instructor receiving retired or other pay from such armed 
        force, including procedures that would require such 
        institutions to report allegations of sexual misconduct, 
        including harassment, against an instructor, within 48 hours of 
        learning of such allegations;
            ``(B) Processes by which the military departments certify 
        instructors, including the conduct of appropriate background 
        checks by the military service and the institution concerned.
            ``(C) Processes by which the military service will conduct 
        oversight of their certified instructors, including the 
        requirement to recertify instructors not less often than once 
        every five years.
            ``(D) Processes by which such institution's program will be 
        inspected by the military department concerned prior to 
        establishment of a new unit, or not less often than once every 
        four years in the case of units existing as of January 1, 2024, 
        staggered as the Secretary determines appropriate.
            ``(E) A requirement that each institution certifies it--
                    ``(i) has created a process for students to report 
                violations of their rights under title IX of the 
                Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.), 
                as applicable, and title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 
                1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq.), including the rights of 
                students to not be subject to discrimination or subject 
                to retaliation for reporting a violation of those laws, 
                if such laws apply to the institution;
                    ``(ii) has implemented policies ensuring students 
                and instructors are notified of those rights, as well 
                as the process for reporting violations of those 
                rights, including information on available mandatory 
                reporters, if such laws apply to the institution;
                    ``(iii) has implemented annual training to inform 
                students of methods to prevent, respond to, and report 
                sexual assault and harassment;
                    ``(iv) agrees to report all allegations of 
                violations described under this subparagraph to the 
                military department concerned and, if subject to the 
                jurisdiction of the Department of Education, the 
                Department of Education's Office of Civil Rights not 
                less often than annually;
                    ``(v) has developed processes to ensure that each 
                student enrolled in a unit under this section has done 
                so voluntarily; and
                    ``(vi) agrees to provide the data necessary to 
                compile the report required under subsection (j).''.

SEC. 574. JUNIOR RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS INSTRUCTOR 
              COMPENSATION.

    Section 2031 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by amending subsection (d) to read as follows:
    ``(d)(1) Instead of, or in addition to, detailing officers and 
noncommissioned officers on active duty under subsection (c)(1), the 
Secretary of the military department concerned may authorize qualified 
institutions to employ, as administrators and instructors in the 
program--
            ``(A) retired officers and noncommissioned officers whose 
        qualifications are approved by the Secretary and the 
        institution concerned and who request such employment;
            ``(B) officers and noncommissioned officers who are 
        separated with an honorable discharge within the past 5 years 
        with at least 8 years of service and are approved by the 
        Secretary and the institution concerned and who request such 
        employment; or
            ``(C) officers and noncommissioned officers who are active 
        participating members of the selected reserve at the time of 
        application, for purposes of section 101(d) of this title, and 
        have not yet reached retirement eligibility and are approved by 
        the Secretary and the institution concerned and who request 
        such employment.
    ``(2) Employment under this subsection shall be subject to the 
following conditions:
            ``(A) The Secretary concerned shall pay to the institution 
        an amount equal to one-half of the Department's prescribed 
        JROTC Standardized Instructor Pay Scale (JSIPS) amount paid to 
        the member by the institution for any period.
            ``(B) The Secretary concerned may pay to the institution 
        more than one-half of the amount paid to the member by the 
        institution if (as determined by the Secretary)--
                    ``(i) the institution is in an educationally and 
                economically deprived area; and
                    ``(ii) the Secretary determines that such action is 
                in the national interest.
            ``(C) Payments by the Secretary concerned under this 
        subsection shall be made from funds appropriated for that 
        purpose.
            ``(D) The Secretary concerned may require successful 
        applicants to transfer to the Individual Ready Reserve 
        (IRR).'';
            (2) by striking subsections (e) and (f); and
            (3) by redesignating subsections (g) and (h) as subsections 
        (e) and (f), respectively.

SEC. 575. ANNUAL REPORT ON ALLEGATIONS OF SEXUAL MISCONDUCT IN JROTC 
              PROGRAMS.

    Section 2031 of title 10, United States Code, as amended by section 
572 of this Act, is further amended by adding at the end the following 
new subsection:
    ``(j)(1) Not later than March 31, 2024, and annually thereafter 
through March 31, 2029, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on allegations of sexual misconduct, sexual 
harassment, and sex discrimination in JROTC programs during the 
preceding year.
    ``(2) Each report required under paragraph (1) shall set forth the 
following:
            ``(A) The number of reported allegations of violations 
        under title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 
        1681 et seq.) in school-affiliated JROTC programs, including--
                    ``(i) the number of such reported allegations that 
                were investigated;
                    ``(ii) the outcome of those investigations; and
                    ``(iii) the number of such reported allegations by 
                State, the District of Columbia, or overseas location 
                where these reports occurred.
            ``(B) The number of reports that the Department of Defense 
        or military services have received during the reporting period 
        involving allegations of acts of violence, including sexual 
        abuse or harassment, by instructors against students in the 
        JROTC program, including--
                    ``(i) the offense involved;
                    ``(ii) the military service involved;
                    ``(iii) the number of instructors and number of 
                allegations they each received;
                    ``(iv) the number of reports of sexual misconduct 
                and harassment that have been investigated;
                    ``(v) the number of reports or investigations that 
                have led to the removal of instructors from JROTC 
                programs; and
                    ``(vi) the number of such reported allegations by 
                State, the District of Columbia, or overseas location 
                where these reports occurred.
            ``(C) Any steps the Department of Defense has taken to 
        mitigate sexual misconduct and harassment in JROTC programs 
        during the preceding year.
    ``(3) Each report required under paragraph (1) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form and may not be marked as controlled unclassified 
information.
    ``(4) The Secretary shall annually report to the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives regarding 
compliance with this subsection by the JROTC program, including an up-
to-date report on the Secretary's monitoring of such compliance.
    ``(5) The Secretary may seek the advice and counsel of the Attorney 
General and the Secretary of Health and Human Services concerning the 
development and dissemination to the JROTC program of best practices 
information about preventing and responding to incidents of domestic 
violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking, including 
elements of institutional policies that have proven successful based on 
evidence-based outcome measurements.
    ``(6) No officer, employee, or agent of an institution 
participating in any program under this chapter shall retaliate, 
intimidate, threaten, coerce, or otherwise discriminate against any 
individual for exercising their rights or responsibilities under any 
provision of this subsection.''.

SEC. 576. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON EFFORTS TO INCREASE 
              TRANSPARENCY AND REPORTING ON SEXUAL VIOLENCE IN THE 
              JUNIOR RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on 
efforts to increase transparency and reporting on sexual violence in 
the Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps Program.
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include a description of the following:
            (1) The implementation of section 2031 of title 10, United 
        States Code, as amended by sections 572, 573, and 575 of this 
        Act.
            (2) The adequacy of the Department of Defense's vetting 
        process for Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps 
        instructors.
            (3) The Department of Defense and the Department of 
        Education's oversight of compliance of units with respect to 
        title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 1681 et 
        seq.) and title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 
        2000d et seq.).
            (4) Any changes in the numbers of sexual harassment, 
        assault, or stalking incidents reported to institutions or law 
        enforcement agencies.
            (5) The sufficiency of military department unit 
        inspections.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees''means the Committee on 
Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives.

  Subtitle H--Decorations and Other Awards, Miscellaneous Reports and 
                             Other Matters

SEC. 581. EXTENSION OF DEADLINE FOR REVIEW OF WORLD WAR I VALOR MEDALS.

    Section 584(f) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92; 10 U.S.C. 7271 note) is amended by 
striking ``six years after the date of the enactment of this Act'' and 
inserting ``December 31, 2028''.

SEC. 582. PROHIBITION ON FORMER MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES ACCEPTING 
              POST-SERVICE EMPLOYMENT WITH CERTAIN FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 49 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 989. Prohibition on former members of the armed forces accepting 
              post-service employment with certain foreign governments
    ``(a) In General.--Except as provided by subsection (b), a covered 
individual may not occupy a covered post-service position.
    ``(b) Temporary Waiver.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish 
        a process under which a covered individual may be granted a 
        temporary waiver of the prohibition under subsection (a) if--
                    ``(A) the individual, or a Federal agency on behalf 
                of, and with the consent of, the individual, submits to 
                the Secretary a written application for a waiver in 
                such form and manner as the Secretary determines 
                appropriate; and
                    ``(B) the Secretary determines that the waiver is 
                necessary to advance the national security interests of 
                the United States.
            ``(2) Period of waiver.--A waiver issued under paragraph 
        (1) shall apply for a period not exceeding 5 years. The 
        Secretary may renew such a waiver.
            ``(3) Revocation.--The Secretary may revoke a waiver issued 
        under paragraph (1) to a covered individual with respect to a 
        covered-post service position if the Secretary determines that 
        the employment of the individual in the covered-post service 
        position poses a threat to national security.
            ``(4) Notification.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the 
                date on which the Secretary issues a waiver under 
                paragraph (1) or revokes a waiver under paragraph (3), 
                the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
                Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives 
                written notification of the waiver or revocation, as 
                the case may be.
                    ``(B) Elements.--A notification required by 
                subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
                            ``(i) With respect to a waiver issued to a 
                        covered individual--
                                    ``(I) the details of the 
                                application, including the position 
                                held by the individual in the armed 
                                forces;
                                    ``(II) the nature of the post-
                                service position of the individual;
                                    ``(III) a description of the 
                                national security interests that will 
                                be advanced by reason of issuing such a 
                                waiver; and
                                    ``(IV) the specific reasons why the 
                                Secretary determines that issuing the 
                                waiver will advance such interests.
                            ``(ii) With respect to a revocation of a 
                        waiver issued to a covered individual--
                                    ``(I) the details of the waiver, 
                                including any renewals of the waiver, 
                                and the dates of such waiver and 
                                renewals; and
                                    ``(II) the specific reasons why the 
                                Secretary determined that the 
                                revocation is warranted.
    ``(c) Certification of Prohibition.--In implementing the 
prohibition under subsection (a), the Secretary shall establish a 
process under which each member of the armed forces is, before the 
member retires or is otherwise separated from the armed forces--
            ``(1) informed in writing of the prohibition, and the 
        penalties for violations of the prohibition; and
            ``(2) is required to certify that the member understands 
        the prohibition and those penalties.
    ``(d) Penalties.--In the case of a covered individual who knowingly 
and willfully fails to comply with the prohibition under subsection 
(a), the Secretary shall, as applicable--
            ``(1) withhold any pay, allowances, or benefits that would 
        otherwise be provided to the individual by the Department of 
        Defense; and
            ``(2) revoke any security clearance of the individual.
    ``(e) Annual Reports.--
            ``(1) Requirement.--Not later than March 31, 2024, and 
        annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report on covered post-
        service employment occurring during the year covered by the 
        report.
            ``(2) Elements.--Each report required by paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    ``(A) The number of former covered individuals who 
                occupy a covered post-service position, broken down 
                by--
                            ``(i) the name of the employer;
                            ``(ii) the foreign government, including by 
                        the specific foreign individual, agency, or 
                        entity, for whom the covered post-service 
                        employment is being performed; and
                            ``(iii) the nature of the services provided 
                        as part of the covered post-service employment.
                    ``(B) An assessment by the Secretary of whether--
                            ``(i) the Department of Defense maintains 
                        adequate systems and processes for ensuring 
                        that former members of the armed forces are 
                        submitting required reports relating to their 
                        employment by foreign governments;
                            ``(ii) all covered individuals who occupy a 
                        covered post-service position are in compliance 
                        with this section;
                            ``(iii) the services provided by the 
                        covered individuals who occupy a covered post-
                        service position pose a current or future 
                        threat to the national security of the United 
                        States; and
                            ``(iv) there is any credible information or 
                        reporting that any covered individual who 
                        occupies a covered post-service position has 
                        engaged in activities that violate Federal law.
            ``(3) Form of report.--Each report required by paragraph 
        (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
        classified annex.
    ``(f) Notifications of Determinations of Certain Threats.--
            ``(1) Requirement.--In addition to the annual reports under 
        subsection (d), if the Secretary determines that the services 
        provided by a covered individual who occupies a covered post-
        service position pose a threat described in clause (iii) of 
        paragraph (2)(B) of that subsection, or include activities 
        described in clause (iv) of such paragraph, the Secretary shall 
        notify the congressional defense committees of that 
        determination by not later than 30 days after making the 
        determination.
            ``(2) Elements.--A notification required by paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    ``(A) The name of the covered individual.
                    ``(B) The name of the employer.
                    ``(C) The foreign government, including the 
                specific foreign individual, agency, or entity, for 
                whom the covered post-service employment is being 
                performed.
                    ``(D) As applicable, a description of the risk to 
                national security and the activities that may violate 
                Federal law.
    ``(g) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
construed to indemnify or shield covered individuals from prosecution 
under any relevant provision of title 18.
    ``(h) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Covered individual.--The term `covered individual' 
        means an individual who has retired or otherwise separated from 
        an active or reserve component of the Armed Forces.
            ``(2) Covered post-service employment.--The term `covered 
        post-service employment' means direct or indirect employment 
        by, representation of, or any provision of advice or services 
        relating to national security, intelligence, the military, or 
        internal security to--
                    ``(A) the government of--
                            ``(i) a country of concern (as defined in 
                        section 1(m) of the State Department Basic 
                        Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2651a(m))); 
                        or
                            ``(ii) a country the Secretary of Defense 
                        determines acts as a proxy or passthrough for 
                        services for a country of concern; or
                    ``(B) any company, entity, or other person the 
                activities of which are directly or indirectly 
                supervised, directed, controlled, financed, or 
                subsidized, in whole or in major part, by a government 
                described in subparagraph (A).
            ``(3) Covered post-service position.--The term `covered 
        post-service position' means a position of employment described 
        in paragraph (2).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 49 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following 
new item:

``989. Prohibition on former members of the armed forces accepting 
                            post-service employment with certain 
                            foreign governments.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--Section 908 of title 37, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Prohibition on Former Members of Armed Forces Accepting 
Employment With Certain Foreign Governments.--For a provision of law 
prohibiting former members of the armed forces from accepting post-
service employment with certain foreign governments, see section 989 of 
title 10.''.

SEC. 583. PROHIBITION ON REQUIRING LISTING OF GENDER OR PRONOUNS IN 
              OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE.

    The Department of Defense is prohibited from requiring members of 
the Armed Forces or civilian employees of the Department of Defense to 
list their gender or pronouns in official correspondence, whether such 
correspondence is written or electronic.

                Subtitle I--Enhanced Recruiting Efforts

SEC. 591. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Military Service Promotion Act 
of 2023''.

SEC. 592. INCREASED ACCESS TO POTENTIAL RECRUITS AT SECONDARY SCHOOLS.

    Section 503(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) in clause (i), by striking ``; and'' 
                        and inserting a semicolon;
                            (ii) by redesignating clause (ii) as clause 
                        (iii);
                            (iii) by inserting after clause (i) the 
                        following new clause:
            ``(ii) shall provide to military recruiters access to 
        career fairs or similar events upon a request made by military 
        recruiters for military recruiting purposes; and''; and
                            (iv) in clause (iii), as redesignated by 
                        subparagraph (B), by inserting ``, not later 
                        than 60 days after receiving such request,'' 
                        after ``provide''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``subparagraph 
                (A)(ii)'' and inserting ``subparagraph (A)(iii)'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph (7); and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following new 
        paragraph:
    ``(6) The Secretary of Defense shall submit an annual report to 
Congress not later than February 1 each calendar year, detailing each 
notification of denial of recruiting access issued under paragraph 
(3).''.

SEC. 593. INCREASED ACCESS TO POTENTIAL RECRUITS AT INSTITUTIONS OF 
              HIGHER EDUCATION.

    Section 983(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``; or'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``to the following information 
                pertaining'' and inserting ``, with respect'';
                    (B) by striking ``institution):'' and inserting 
                ``institution)--'';
                    (C) in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) by striking ``Names'' and inserting 
                        ``names''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``telephone listings.'' 
                        and inserting ``telephone listings, which 
                        information shall be made available not later 
                        than the 60th day following the date of a 
                        request; and''; and
                    (D) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``Date'' and 
                inserting ``date''.

          TITLE VI--COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS

                     Subtitle A--Pay and Allowances

SEC. 601. PAY OF MEMBERS OF RESERVE COMPONENTS FOR INACTIVE-DUTY 
              TRAINING TO OBTAIN OR MAINTAIN AN AERONAUTICAL RATING OR 
              DESIGNATION.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 3 of title 37, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 206 the following new section:
``Sec. 206a. Pay of members of reserve components for inactive-duty 
              training to obtain or maintain an aeronautical rating or 
              designation
    ``Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary concerned, a member 
of the National Guard or a member of a reserve component of a uniformed 
service who is receiving aviation incentive pay under section 334(a) of 
this title and is entitled to compensation under section 206 of this 
title is entitled to such compensation for a number of periods of 
inactive-duty training each month sufficient for the member to obtain 
or maintain an aeronautical rating or designation.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 3 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating 
to section 206 the following new item:

``206a. Pay of members of reserve components for inactive-duty training 
                            to obtain or maintain an aeronautical 
                            rating or designation.''.

SEC. 602. MODIFICATION OF CALCULATION METHOD FOR BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR 
              HOUSING TO MORE ACCURATELY ASSESS HOUSING COSTS OF JUNIOR 
              MEMBERS OF UNIFORMED SERVICES.

    Section 403(b)(5) of title 37, United States Code, is amended, in 
the second sentence, by striking ``and shall be based on the 
following:'' and all that follows through ``determined in subparagraph 
(A)''.

SEC. 603. BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR HOUSING FOR MEMBERS ASSIGNED TO VESSELS 
              UNDERGOING MAINTENANCE.

    Section 403(f)(2) of title 37, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``subparagraphs (B) 
        and (C)'' and inserting ``subparagraphs (B), (C), and (D)''; 
        and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(D)(i) Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary concerned, 
the Secretary may authorize the payment of a basic allowance for 
housing to a member of a uniformed service without dependents who is 
serving in a pay grade below E-6 and has orders to a naval vessel 
during a shipyard availability or maintenance period.
    ``(ii) In prescribing regulations under clause (i), the Secretary 
concerned shall consider the availability of quarters for members 
serving in pay grades below E-6 before authorizing the payment of a 
basic allowance for housing for such members.''.

SEC. 604. DUAL BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR HOUSING FOR TRAINING FOR CERTAIN 
              MEMBERS OF RESERVE COMPONENTS.

    Section 403(g)(3) of title 37, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Paragraphs'' and inserting ``(A) Except 
        as provided by subparagraph (B), paragraphs''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(B) Paragraphs (1) and (2) shall apply with respect to a member 
of a reserve component without dependents who is called or ordered to 
active duty to attend training for a period of 140 days or more but 
fewer than 365 days and for whom transportation of household goods is 
authorized under section 453(c) of this title as part of the call or 
order to active duty.''.

SEC. 605. MODIFICATION OF CALCULATION OF GROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME FOR 
              BASIC NEEDS ALLOWANCE TO ADDRESS AREAS OF DEMONSTRATED 
              NEED.

    (a) In General.--Section 402b(k)(1)(B) of title 37, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting ``or that otherwise has a demonstrated 
need'' after ``high cost of living''.
    (b) Implementation Guidance.--The Secretary of Defense shall revise 
the guidance issued with respect to implementation of the basic needs 
allowance under section 402b of title 37, United States Code, to 
reflect the amendment made by subsection (a).

SEC. 606. EXPANSION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF QUALIFIED 
              LICENSURE, CERTIFICATION, AND BUSINESS RELOCATION COSTS 
              INCURRED BY MILITARY SPOUSES.

    Section 453(g)(1) of title 37, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)--
                    (A) by striking ``member is reassigned'' and 
                inserting the following: ``member is--
                    ``(i) reassigned'';
                    (B) by striking ``; and'' and inserting ``; or''; 
                and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new clause:
                    ``(ii) transferred from a regular component of a 
                uniformed service into the Selected Reserve of the 
                Ready Reserve of a uniformed service, if the member is 
                authorized a final move from the last duty station to 
                the new jurisdiction or geographic area; and''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``or transfer'' after 
        ``reassignment''.

SEC. 607. COST-OF-LIVING ALLOWANCE IN THE CONTINENTAL UNITED STATES: 
              HIGH COST AREAS.

    Section 403b(c) of title 37, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the second sentence, by striking ``8 percent'' and 
        inserting ``5 percent''; and
            (2) in the third sentence, by striking ``shall prescribe'' 
        and inserting ``may prescribe''.

SEC. 608. OCONUS COST-OF-LIVING ALLOWANCE: ADJUSTMENTS.

    Section 617 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263) is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``; notice to 
        certain congressional committees''; and
            (2) by striking subsections (a), (b), and (c) and inserting 
        the following:
    ``(a) In General.--Subject to subsections (b) and (c), the 
Secretary of Defense may announce reductions in the cost-of-living 
allowance for a member of the uniformed services assigned to a duty 
station located outside the continental United States--
            ``(1) not more than two times per year; or
            ``(2) in connection with a permanent change of station for 
        such member.
    ``(b) Limitation on Size of Reductions.--The Secretary may not make 
a reduction under subsection (a) in the allowance described in that 
subsection by an amount that exceeds 10 percent of the amount of the 
allowance before the reduction.
    ``(c) Treatment of Reductions Relating to Foreign Currency Exchange 
Rates.--The limitations under subsections (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to reductions in the allowance described in subsection (a) relating to 
changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
    ``(d) Implementation of Reductions.--The Secretary may phase in the 
reductions described in subsection (a).
    ``(e) Increases.--The Secretary may increase the allowance 
described in subsection (a) for a member of the uniformed services at 
any time.''.

SEC. 609. EXTENSION OF ONE-TIME UNIFORM ALLOWANCE FOR OFFICERS WHO 
              TRANSFER TO THE SPACE FORCE.

    Section 606(d)(1) of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116-283; 37 
U.S.C. 416 note) is amended by striking ``September 30, 2023'' and 
inserting ``September 30, 2025''.

SEC. 610. REVIEW OF RATES OF MILITARY BASIC PAY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a review of 
the rates of monthly basic pay authorized for members of the uniformed 
services to determine if the current basic pay table adequately 
compensates junior enlisted personnel in pay grades E-1 through E-4.
    (b) Factors for Review.--In conducting the review required by 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall conduct the following:
            (1) An assessment of the adequacy of the rates of monthly 
        basic pay for members of the uniformed services in light of 
        current and predicted recruiting difficulties.
            (2) An analysis of how such basic pay, when combined with 
        other elements of regular compensation for members of the 
        uniformed services, compares with private sector wages for 
        potential recruits to the uniformed services.
            (3) An assessment of how sustained periods of cost 
        inflation affect pay for the uniformed services and comparable 
        private sector wages.
            (4) An historical analysis of how percentage differences 
        between junior enlisted basic pay, senior enlisted basic pay, 
        junior officer basic pay, and senior officer basic pay, have 
        changed since the rates of basic pay for members of the 
        uniformed services were authorized by section 601 of the John 
        Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 
        (Public Law 109-364; 37 U.S.C. 1009 note).
    (c) Report and Legislative Proposal Required.--Not later than March 
1, 2024, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives--
            (1) a report on the results of the review required by 
        subsection (a); and
            (2) a comprehensive legislative proposal for the rates of 
        basic pay for members of the uniformed services.

SEC. 611. GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE STUDY ON PROCESS FOR 
              DETERMINING COST-OF-LIVING ALLOWANCES FOR MEMBERS OF THE 
              UNIFORMED SERVICES ASSIGNED TO THE CONTINENTAL UNITED 
              STATES, HAWAII, ALASKA, AND OVERSEAS LOCATIONS.

    (a) In General.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
conduct a study on the process for determining cost-of-living 
allowances for members of the uniformed services stationed in the 
continental United States, Hawaii, Alaska, and at overseas locations.
    (b) Elements.--In conducting the study required by subsection (a), 
the Comptroller General shall assess--
            (1) the fairness and equity of the process for determining 
        cost-of-living allowances described in subsection (a) and 
        methods for improving that process;
            (2) the advantages and disadvantages of averaging the 
        results of continental United States Living Pattern Surveys and 
        Retail Price Schedules without regard to the geographic 
        concentration of members of the uniformed services within the 
        continental United States when determining the baseline cost of 
        living for the continental United States;
            (3) if additional out-of-pocket expenses, including the 
        costs for a member of the uniformed services to travel to and 
        from the home of record of the member from the assigned duty 
        station of the member, should be included in the calculations 
        of the Department of Defense for determining overseas cost-of-
        living allowances to better equalize the true costs of living 
        for members stationed outside the continental United States 
        with such costs for members stationed inside the continental 
        United States; and
            (4) the process by which the Department of Defense conducts 
        Living Pattern Surveys and develops Retail Price Schedules.
    (c) Report Required.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report--
            (1) setting forth the results of the study required by 
        subsection (a); and
            (2) making any recommendations the Comptroller General 
        considers appropriate based on those results, including any 
        recommendations for changes to section 403b or 405 of title 37, 
        United States Code.

                  Subtitle B--Bonus and Incentive Pays

SEC. 621. MODIFICATION OF SPECIAL AND INCENTIVE PAY AUTHORITIES FOR 
              MEMBERS OF RESERVE COMPONENTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 357 of title 37, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``incentive pay'' and inserting ``special 
        or incentive pay''; and
            (2) by striking the period at the end and inserting the 
        following: ``if the Secretary concerned is paying the member of 
        the reserve component the special or incentive pay for the 
        purpose of--
            ``(1) maintaining a skill certification or proficiency 
        identical to a skill certification or proficiency required of 
        the member in the regular component; or
            ``(2) compensating the member of the reserve component for 
        exposure to hazards or risks identical to hazards or risks to 
        which the member in the regular component was exposed.''.
    (b) Conforming and Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) Conforming amendment.--The section heading for section 
        357 of title 37, United States Code, is amended by striking 
        ``Incentive'' and inserting ``Special and incentive''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 
        5 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
        section 357 and inserting the following new item:

``357. Special and incentive pay authorities for members of the reserve 
                            components of the armed forces.''.
    (c) Modification of Implementation Determination.--Section 602(d) 
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public 
Law 117-81; 37 U.S.C. 357 note) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, and by moving such 
        subparagraphs, as so redesignated, two ems to the right;
            (2) by striking ``The Secretary may'' and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall'';
            (3) in subparagraph (A), as redesignated by paragraph (1), 
        by striking ``subsection (b)'' and inserting ``subsection 
        (c)''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(2) Evaluation of types of special and incentive pay.--In 
        making the determination and certification described in 
        paragraph (1)(B), the Secretary shall evaluate each type or 
        category of special and incentive pay separately and may make 
        the determination and certification based on the effect on an 
        Armed Force concerned of a particular type or category of 
        special or incentive pay.''.

SEC. 622. EXPANSION OF CONTINUATION PAY ELIGIBILITY.

    (a) Continuation Pay: Full TSP Members With 8 to 12 Years of 
Service.--Section 356 of title 37, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``8'' and inserting 
        ``7''; and
            (2) in subsections (a)(1) and (d), by striking ``8'' and 
        inserting ``7''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 5 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 356 and inserting the following new item:

``356. Continuation pay: full TSP members with 7 to 12 years of 
                            service.''.

SEC. 623. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF CERTAIN EXPIRING BONUS AND SPECIAL PAY 
              AUTHORITIES.

    (a) Authorities Relating to Reserve Forces.--Section 910(g) of 
title 37, United States Code, relating to income replacement payments 
for reserve component members experiencing extended and frequent 
mobilization for active duty service, is amended by striking ``December 
31, 2023'' and inserting ``December 31, 2024''.
    (b) Title 10 Authorities Relating to Health Care Professionals.--
The following sections of title 10, United States Code, are amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2023'' and inserting ``December 31, 2024'':
            (1) Section 2130a(a)(1), relating to nurse officer 
        candidate accession program.
            (2) Section 16302(d), relating to repayment of education 
        loans for certain health professionals who serve in the 
        Selected Reserve.
    (c) Authorities Relating to Nuclear Officers.--Section 333(i) of 
title 37, United States Code, is amended by striking ``December 31, 
2023'' and inserting ``December 31, 2024''.
    (d) Authorities Relating to Title 37 Consolidated Special Pay, 
Incentive Pay, and Bonus Authorities.--The following sections of title 
37, United States Code, are amended by striking ``December 31, 2023'' 
and inserting ``December 31, 2024'':
            (1) Section 331(h), relating to general bonus authority for 
        enlisted members.
            (2) Section 332(g), relating to general bonus authority for 
        officers.
            (3) Section 334(i), relating to special aviation incentive 
        pay and bonus authorities for officers.
            (4) Section 335(k), relating to special bonus and incentive 
        pay authorities for officers in health professions.
            (5) Section 336(g), relating to contracting bonus for 
        cadets and midshipmen enrolled in the Senior Reserve Officers' 
        Training Corps.
            (6) Section 351(h), relating to hazardous duty pay.
            (7) Section 352(g), relating to assignment pay or special 
        duty pay.
            (8) Section 353(i), relating to skill incentive pay or 
        proficiency bonus.
            (9) Section 355(h), relating to retention incentives for 
        members qualified in critical military skills or assigned to 
        high priority units.
    (e) Authorities to Provide Temporary Increase in Rates of Basic 
Allowance for Housing.--Section 403(b) of title 37, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (7)(E), relating to temporary increases in 
        rates of basic allowance for areas covered by a major disaster 
        declaration or containing an installation experiencing a sudden 
        influx of military personnel, by striking ``December 31, 2023'' 
        and inserting ``December 31, 2024''; and
            (2) in paragraph (8)(C), relating to temporary adjustments 
        in rates of basic allowance for housing for localities where 
        actual housing costs differ from current rates of basic 
        allowance for housing by more than 20 percent, by striking 
        ``September 30, 2023'' and inserting ``December 31, 2024''.

SEC. 624. REQUIREMENT TO ESTABLISH REMOTE AND AUSTERE CONDITION 
              ASSIGNMENT INCENTIVE PAY PROGRAM FOR AIR FORCE.

    The Secretary of the Air Force shall--
            (1) evaluate the Remote and Austere Condition Assignment 
        Incentive Pay program of the Army; and
            (2) not later than October 1, 2025, establish a similar 
        program for the Air Force, unless the Secretary can certify to 
        Congress that there are no critically manned units at any Air 
        Force installation in Alaska.

SEC. 625. EXTENSION OF TRAVEL ALLOWANCE FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES 
              ASSIGNED TO ALASKA.

    Section 603(b)(5)(B) of the James M. Inhofe National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263; 136 Stat. 
2621) is amended by striking ``December 31, 2023'' and inserting ``June 
30, 2024''.

                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

SEC. 631. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS FOR APPROVAL OF FOREIGN 
              EMPLOYMENT BY RETIRED AND RESERVE MEMBERS OF UNIFORMED 
              SERVICES.

    Section 908 of title 37, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``A person'' and inserting ``(1) A 
                person'';
                    (B) by inserting ``after determining that such 
                approval is not contrary to the national interests of 
                the United States'' after ``approve the employment''; 
                and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
    ``(2) The Secretary of a military department may delegate the 
determination of the Secretary required by paragraph (1) only to an 
official of the military department at or above the level of an 
Assistant Secretary or, in the event of a vacancy in the position of 
such an official, a civilian official performing the duties of that 
position.''; and
            (2) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph 
                        (A), by striking ``an officer'' and inserting 
                        ``a person''; and
                            (ii) by striking subparagraphs (B) and (C) 
                        and inserting the following new subparagraphs:
            ``(B) A description of the duties, if any, the person is to 
        perform and the compensation the person is to receive for such 
        duties, as reflected in the person's application for approval 
        of the employment or compensation or payment or award.
            ``(C) The position the person held or holds in the armed 
        forces, including the rank of the person and the armed force in 
        which the person served.
            ``(D) Any other information the Secretaries of the military 
        departments consider relevant, except that such information may 
        not include the person's date of birth, Social Security number, 
        home address, phone number, or any other personal identifier 
        other than the name and rank of the person and the armed force 
        in which the person served.''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
    ``(3) Not later than 60 days after the date on which a report 
required by paragraph (1) is submitted, the Secretaries of the military 
departments shall make the report, and all contents of the report, 
available on a publicly accessible internet website.''.

SEC. 632. RESTRICTIONS ON RETIRED AND RESERVE MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
              FORCES RECEIVING EMPLOYMENT AND COMPENSATION INDIRECTLY 
              FROM FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS THROUGH PRIVATE ENTITIES.

    Section 908(a) of title 37, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) as 
        subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C), respectively, and by moving 
        such subparagraphs, as so redesignated, 2 ems to the right;
            (2) by striking ``Subject to'' and inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to'';
            (3) in subparagraph (C), as redesignated, by striking 
        ``Commissioned Reserve Corps'' and inserting ``Ready Reserve 
        Corps''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(2) Application to private entities.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The acceptance by a person 
                described in subparagraph (B) of employment (and 
                compensation related to that employment) or payments or 
                awards for work performed for a foreign government 
                through a private entity shall be subject to the 
                provisions of this section to the same extent and in 
                the same manner as such provisions apply to employment 
                (and compensation related to that employment) and 
                payments and awards described in paragraph (1).
                    ``(B) Persons described.--A person described in 
                this subparagraph is--
                            ``(i) a retired member of the Army, Navy, 
                        Air Force, Marine Corps, or Space Force; or
                            ``(ii) a member of a reserve component of 
                        an armed force specified in clause (i), except 
                        a member serving on active duty under a call or 
                        order to active duty for a period in excess of 
                        30 days.''.

                   TITLE VII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

           Subtitle A--TRICARE and Other Health Care Benefits

SEC. 701. EXTENSION OF PERIOD OF ELIGIBILITY FOR HEALTH BENEFITS UNDER 
              TRICARE RESERVE SELECT FOR SURVIVORS OF A MEMBER OF THE 
              SELECTED RESERVE.

    (a) In General.-- Section 1076d(c) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended by striking ``six months'' and inserting ``three years''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on October 1, 2025.

SEC. 702. AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE DENTAL CARE FOR DEPENDENTS LOCATED AT 
              CERTAIN REMOTE OR ISOLATED LOCATIONS.

    Section 1077(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``paragraph (2)'' and 
        inserting ``paragraphs (2) and (3)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3)(A) Dependents who reside within a specified geographic area 
and are covered by a dental plan established under section 1076a may 
receive dental care in a dental treatment facility of the uniformed 
services on a space available basis if the Secretary of Defense 
determines that--
            ``(i) civilian dental care within the specified geographic 
        area is inadequate or is not sufficiently available; and
            ``(ii) adequate resources exist to provide space available 
        dental care to the dependents at the facility.
    ``(B) Care under subparagraph (A) shall be provided on a 
reimbursable basis.''.

SEC. 703. INCLUSION OF ASSISTED REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY AND ARTIFICIAL 
              INSEMINATION AS REQUIRED PRIMARY AND PREVENTIVE HEALTH 
              CARE SERVICES FOR MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES AND 
              DEPENDENTS.

    (a) Members of the Uniformed Services.--Section 1074d of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(2)--
                    (A) by striking ``entitled to preventive'' and 
                inserting ``entitled to--
            ``(A) preventive'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (A), as designated by 
                subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, by striking the 
                period at the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
            ``(B) for male members of the uniformed services (excluding 
        former members of the uniformed services), services relating to 
        infertility described in subsection (b)(4).''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Infertility Services Included for Members of the Uniformed 
Services.--Services relating to infertility required to be provided 
under subsections (a)(2)(B) and (b)(4) for members of the uniformed 
services (excluding former members of the uniformed services) shall 
include the following:
            ``(1) Treatments or procedures using assisted reproductive 
        technology (as defined in section 8 of the Fertility Clinic 
        Success Rate and Certification Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 263a-
        7(1)), excluding in vitro fertilization).
            ``(2) The provision of artificial insemination, including 
        intrauterine insemination, without regard to coital 
        conception.''.
    (b) Dependents.--Section 1077(a) of such title is amended by adding 
at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(19) Services relating to infertility, including the 
        services specified in section 1074d(c) of this title, except 
        that the services specified in such section may be provided 
        only to a dependent of a member of the uniformed services 
        (excluding any dependent of a former member of the uniformed 
        services).''.
    (c) Exclusion From Contracts for Former Members and Their 
Dependents.--Section 1086 of such title is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c), in the matter preceding paragraph 
        (1), by striking ``subsection (d)'' and inserting ``subsections 
        (d) and (j)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(j) A plan contracted for under subsection (a) may not include 
coverage for services under section 1077(a)(19) of this title for 
former members of the uniformed services or dependents of former 
members of the uniformed services.''.
    (d) Application.--The amendments made by this section shall apply 
to services provided on or after January 1, 2025.
    (e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section or the 
amendments made by this section shall be construed provide new benefits 
to or alter existing benefits for former members of the uniformed 
services or the dependents of former members of the uniformed services.

SEC. 704. PROGRAM ON TREATMENT OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES FOR POST-
              TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER, TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURIES, AND 
              CO-OCCURRING DISORDERS RELATED TO MILITARY SEXUAL TRAUMA.

    (a) Establishment of Program.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 55 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by inserting after section 1074o the following 
        new section:
``Sec. 1074p. Program on treatment of members of the armed forces for 
              post-traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain injuries, 
              and co-occurring disorders related to military sexual 
              trauma
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a 
program to provide intensive outpatient programs to treat members of 
the Armed Forces suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder, 
traumatic brain injuries, and co-occurring disorders related to 
military sexual trauma, including treatment for substance abuse, 
depression, and other issues related to such conditions.
    ``(b) Discharge Through Partnerships.--The Secretary shall carry 
out the program under subsection (a) through partnerships with public, 
private, and non-profit health care organizations, universities, and 
institutions that--
            ``(1) provide health care to members of the armed forces;
            ``(2) provide evidence-based treatment for psychological 
        and neurological conditions that are common among members of 
        the armed forces, including post-traumatic stress disorder, 
        traumatic brain injury, substance abuse, and depression;
            ``(3) provide health care, support, and other benefits to 
        family members of members of the armed forces; and
            ``(4) provide health care under the TRICARE program.
    ``(c) Program Activities.--Each organization, university, or 
institution that participates in a partnership under the program under 
subsection (a) shall--
            ``(1) carry out intensive outpatient programs of short 
        duration to treat members of the armed forces suffering from 
        post-traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain injuries, and 
        co-occurring disorders related to military sexual trauma, 
        including treatment for substance abuse, depression, and other 
        issues related to such conditions;
            ``(2) use evidence-based and evidence-informed treatment 
        strategies in carrying out such programs;
            ``(3) share clinical and outreach best practices with other 
        organizations, universities, and institutions participating in 
        the program under subsection (a); and
            ``(4) annually assess outcomes for members of the armed 
        forces individually and among the organizations, universities, 
        and institutions participating in the program under subsection 
        (a) with respect to the treatment of conditions described in 
        paragraph (1).''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
        item relating to section 1074o the following new item:

``1074p. Program on treatment of members of the armed forces for post-
                            traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain 
                            injuries, and co-occurring disorders 
                            related to military sexual trauma.''.
    (b) Reports.--
            (1) Initial report.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
        the House of Representatives a report on the program under 
        section 1074p of title 10, United States Code, as added by 
        subsection (a), which shall include a description of the 
        program and such other matters on the program as the Secretary 
        considers appropriate.
            (2) Additional report.--Not later than two years after 
        commencement of implementation of the program under section 
        1074p of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection 
        (a), the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
        Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
        report on the program, which shall include the following:
                    (A) A description of the program, including the 
                partnerships under the program as described in 
                subsection (b) of such section, as so added.
                    (B) An assessment of the effectiveness of the 
                program and the activities under the program.
                    (C) Such recommendations for legislative or 
                administrative action as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate in light of the program.
    (c) Conforming Repeal.--
            (1) In general.--Section 702 of the John S. McCain National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-
        232; 10 U.S.C. 1092 note) is repealed.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents at the 
        beginning of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is amended by 
        striking the item relating to section 702.

SEC. 705. WAIVER OF COST-SHARING FOR THREE MENTAL HEALTH OUTPATIENT 
              VISITS FOR CERTAIN BENEFICIARIES UNDER THE TRICARE 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) TRICARE Select.--Section 1075(c) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(4)(A) Consistent with other provisions of this chapter 
        and subject to requirements to be prescribed by the Secretary, 
        the Secretary may waive cost-sharing requirements for the first 
        three outpatient mental health visits each year of any of the 
        following beneficiaries:
                    ``(i) Beneficiaries in the active-duty family 
                member category.
                    ``(ii) Beneficiaries covered by section 1110b of 
                this title.
            ``(B) This paragraph shall terminate on the date that is 
        five years after the date of the enactment of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024.''.
    (b) TRICARE Prime.--Section 1075a(a) of such title is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(4)(A) Consistent with other provisions of this chapter 
        and subject to requirements to be prescribed by the Secretary, 
        the Secretary may waive cost-sharing requirements for the first 
        three outpatient mental health visits each year of a 
        beneficiary in the active-duty family member category (as 
        described in section 1075(b)(1)(A) of this title).
            ``(B) This paragraph shall terminate on the date that is 
        five years after the date of the enactment of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024.''.

SEC. 706. EXPANSION OF DOULA CARE FURNISHED BY DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Expansion of Extramedical Maternal Health Providers 
Demonstration Project.--Section 746 of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 
116-283; 10 U.S.C. 1073 note) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (e) through (h) as 
        subsections (f) through (i), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
        subsection (e):
    ``(e) Coverage of Doula Care.--Not later than 90 days after the 
date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2024, the Secretary shall ensure that the demonstration 
project includes coverage of labor doula care, or reimbursement for 
such care, for all beneficiaries under the TRICARE program, including 
access--
            ``(1) by members of the Armed Forces on active duty;
            ``(2) by beneficiaries outside the continental United 
        States; and
            ``(3) at military medical treatment facilities.''.
    (b) Hiring of Doulas.--The hiring authority for each military 
medical treatment facility may hire a team of doulas to work in 
coordination with lactation support personnel or labor and delivery 
units at such facility.

SEC. 707. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON ACCESS TO MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES THROUGH 
              TRICARE.

    It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Defense should 
take all necessary steps to ensure members of the National Guard and 
the members of their families who are enrolled in TRICARE have timely 
access to mental and behavioral health care services through the 
TRICARE program.

                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

SEC. 711. INCREASE IN STIPEND FOR PARTICIPANTS IN HEALTH PROFESSIONS 
              SCHOLARSHIP AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS.

    Section 2121(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended, in the 
matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``$30,000'' and inserting 
``$50,000''.

SEC. 712. FINANCIAL RELIEF FOR CIVILIANS TREATED IN MILITARY MEDICAL 
              TREATMENT FACILITIES.

    (a) Interim Final Rule Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
issue an interim final rule to implement as soon as possible after the 
date of the enactment of this Act section 1079b of title 10, United 
States Code.
    (b) Treatment of Claims.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary shall hold in abeyance any claims under section 1079b 
        of title 10, United States Code, until the interim final rule 
        required under subsection (a) is in effect.
            (2) Exception.--Paragraph (1) does not apply to--
                    (A) claims to third-party payers; or
                    (B) administrative support provided to the 
                Secretary by another Federal agency to assist the 
                Secretary in the administration of section 1079b of 
                title 10, United States Code.

SEC. 713. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OVERDOSE DATA ACT OF 2023.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Department of 
Defense Overdose Data Act of 2023''.
    (b) Annual Report on Military Overdoses.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate 
        congressional committees a report on the number of annual 
        overdoses among servicemembers.
            (2) Contents.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) The total number of servicemembers who suffered 
                a fatal or nonfatal overdose during the previous 
                calendar year, including--
                            (i) demographic information, including 
                        gender, race, age, military department, 
                        military rank, pay grade, and station;
                            (ii) the location of the fatal overdose, 
                        including whether the overdose was on a 
                        military base; and
                            (iii) a list of the substances involved in 
                        the fatal overdose.
                    (B) Of the servicemembers identified in 
                subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) the number of servicemembers who 
                        received mental health or substance use 
                        disorder services prior to a fatal or nonfatal 
                        overdose, including a description of whether 
                        such services were received from a private 
                        sector provider;
                            (ii) the number of servicemembers with 
                        comorbid mental health diagnoses;
                            (iii) the number of servicemembers who had 
                        been prescribed opioids, benzodiazepines, or 
                        stimulants;
                            (iv) the number of servicemembers who had 
                        been categorized as high-risk and prescribed or 
                        provided naloxone prior to a fatal or nonfatal 
                        overdose;
                            (v) the number of servicemembers who had a 
                        positive drug test prior to the fatal overdose, 
                        including any substance identified in such 
                        test;
                            (vi) the number of servicemembers referred 
                        to, including by self-referral, or engaged in 
                        medical treatment, including medication 
                        treatment for opioid use disorder;
                            (vii) with respect to each servicemember 
                        identified in clause (vi), whether the 
                        servicemember was referred after a positive 
                        drug test and the source of such referral; and
                            (viii) the number of fatal overdoses and 
                        intentional overdoses.
                    (C) An analysis of discernable patterns in fatal 
                and nonfatal overdoses of servicemembers.
                    (D) A description of existing or anticipated 
                response efforts to fatal and nonfatal overdoses at 
                military bases that have rates of fatal overdoses that 
                exceed the average rate of fatal overdoses in the 
                United States.
                    (E) An assessment of the availability of substance 
                use disorder treatment for servicemembers.
                    (F) The number of medical facilities of, or 
                affiliated with, the Department of Defense that have 
                opioid treatment programs.
                    (G) A description of punitive measures taken by the 
                Secretary of Defense in response to substance misuse, 
                substance use disorder, or overdose by servicemembers.
            (3) Privacy.--
                    (A) In general.--Nothing in this subsection shall 
                be construed to authorize the disclosure by the 
                Secretary of Defense of personally identifiable 
                information of servicemembers or military family 
                members, including anonymized personal information that 
                could be used to re-identify servicemembers or military 
                family members.
                    (B) Application of hipaa.--In carrying out this 
                subsection, the Secretary of Defense shall take steps 
                to protect the privacy of servicemembers and military 
                family members pursuant to regulations promulgated 
                under section 264(c) of the Health Insurance 
                Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. 
                1320d-2 note; Public Law 104-191).
    (c) Standards for the Use of Materials to Prevent Overdose and 
Substance Use Disorder.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish 
standards for the distribution of, and training for the use of, 
naloxone or other medication for overdose reversal, opioid disposal 
materials, fentanyl test strips, and other materials to prevent or 
reverse overdoses, substance use disorder, or impacts related to 
substance misuse.
    (d) Sunset.--This section shall terminate on the date that is 5 
years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; 
                and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) Military family member.--The term ``military family 
        member'' means a family member of a servicemember, including 
        the spouse, parent, dependent, or child of a servicemember, or 
        anyone who has legal responsibility for the child of a 
        servicemember.
            (3) Servicemember.--The term ``servicemember'' means--
                    (A) a member of the Armed Forces; or
                    (B) a member of the National Guard.

SEC. 714. MODIFICATION OF ADMINISTRATION OF MEDICAL MALPRACTICE CLAIMS 
              BY MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES.

    (a) In General.--Section 2733a of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``subsection (f)'' and 
        inserting ``subsection (j)'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(6), by striking ``subsection (f)'' 
        and inserting ``subsection (j)'';
            (3) in subsection (d)(1), by striking ``subsection (f)'' 
        and inserting ``subsection (j)'';
            (4) by redesignating subsections (f) through (i) as 
        subsections (j) through (m), respectively; and
            (5) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
        subsections:
    ``(f) Expert Medical Opinions.--(1) The Secretary of Defense may 
not use an expert medical opinion from an individual in determining 
whether to allow, settle, and pay a claim under this section unless the 
individual is a board-certified physician.
    ``(2) No claim under this section may be denied on medical grounds 
until the Secretary obtains an expert medical opinion on the medical 
malpractice alleged under such claim from an individual who--
            ``(A) is not a member of the uniformed services or a 
        civilian employee of the Department of Defense; and
            ``(B) does not have a business, medical, or personal 
        relationship with the claimant.
    ``(3) If a claim under this section is denied, the Secretary shall 
provide to the claimant information regarding the identity and 
qualifications of any individual who provided an expert medical opinion 
upon which such denial is based.
    ``(g) Justification of Denial.--If a claim under this section is 
denied, the Secretary of Defense shall provide the claimant with 
detailed reasoning justifying the denial of the claim, including--
            ``(1) copies of any written reports prepared by any expert 
        upon which the denial is based; and
            ``(2) all records and documents relied upon in preparing 
        such written reports.
    ``(h) Appeals.--(1) Any appeal from the denial of a claim under 
this section shall be considered by a third-party review board jointly 
established by the Chief Judge of the United States Court of Appeals 
for the Armed Forces and the Secretary of Defense.
    ``(2) The third-party review board established under paragraph (1) 
shall consist of not more than five members, all of whom who possess 
sufficient legal or medical background, or both.
    ``(3) A claimant under this section that seeks an appeal under 
paragraph (1) may submit the appeal directly to the third-party review 
board established under such paragraph.
    ``(4) In considering an appeal from the denial of a claim under 
this section, the third-party review board established under paragraph 
(1) shall, at the request of the claimant, allow for a hearing on the 
merits of the appeal in an adversarial nature.
    ``(5) The Secretary of Defense shall provide to a claimant seeking 
an appeal under paragraph (1) a copy of any response to the appeal that 
is submitted on behalf of the Department of Defense.
    ``(6) The third-party review board established under paragraph (1) 
shall not consist of any member of the uniformed services or civilian 
employee of the Department of Defense.
    ``(i) Treatment of Non-economic Damages.--(1) Any non-economic 
damages provided to a member of the uniformed services under this 
section may not be offset by compensation provided or expected to be 
provided by the Department of Defense or the Department of Veterans 
Affairs.
    ``(2)(A) The Secretary of Defense shall establish a cap on non-
economic damages to be provided with respect to a claim under this 
section.
    ``(B)(i) The cap established under subparagraph (A) shall be 
determined by calculating the average of non-economic damage caps for 
medical malpractice claims applicable in California, Texas, North 
Carolina, and Virginia.
    ``(ii) If a State specified in clause (i) provides a different cap 
for cases involving death and cases not involving death, the cap for 
cases not involving death shall be used.
    ``(C) The cap established under paragraph (1) shall be recalculated 
not less frequently than once every three years.''.
    (b) Appointment of Members.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Chief Judge of the United States 
Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces and the Secretary of Defense 
shall jointly appoint members to the board established under subsection 
(h)(1) of section 2733a of title 10, United States Code, as added by 
subsection (a)(5).
    (c) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the establishment of the 
board required under subsection (h)(1) of section 2733a of title 10, 
United States Code, as added by subsection (a)(5), the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
and the House of Representatives a report indicating--
            (1) the membership of the board;
            (2) the qualifying background of each member of the board; 
        and
            (3) a statement indicating the independence of each member 
        of the board from the Department of Defense.

                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

SEC. 721. MODIFICATION OF PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM BETWEEN UNITED STATES AND 
              UKRAINE FOR MILITARY TRAUMA CARE AND RESEARCH.

    Section 736 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (7) through (9) as 
        paragraphs (8) through (10), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following new 
        paragraph (7):
            ``(7) The provision of training and support to Ukraine for 
        the treatment of individuals with extremity trauma, 
        amputations, post-traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain 
        injuries, and any other mental health conditions associated 
        with post-traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain 
        injuries, including--
                    ``(A) the exchange of subject matter expertise;
                    ``(B) training and support relating to advanced 
                clinical skills development; and
                    ``(C) training and support relating to clinical 
                case management support.''.

SEC. 722. REQUIREMENT THAT DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE DISCLOSE EXPERT 
              REPORTS WITH RESPECT TO MEDICAL MALPRACTICE CLAIMS BY 
              MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES.

    Section 2733a of title 10, United States Code, as amended by 
section 714, is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (l) and (m) as subsections 
        (m) and (n), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (k) the following new 
        subsection (l):
    ``(l) Disclosure by Department of Defense.--(1) The Secretary of 
Defense shall disclose to a claimant under this section a copy of all 
written reports, other than medical quality assurance records (as 
defined in section 1102(j) of this title), prepared by a medical expert 
of the Department of Defense or any medical expert consulted by the 
Department with respect to the claim.
    ``(2) Any disclosure under paragraph (1) with respect to an expert 
described in such paragraph shall include the following:
            ``(A) The records and documents considered by the expert.
            ``(B) A description of the bases and reasons for the 
        opinion of the expert.
            ``(C) The opinion or opinions of the expert regarding 
        standard of care.
            ``(D) The opinion or opinions of the expert regarding 
        causation.
            ``(E) A description of any disagreement by the expert with 
        any opinion or opinions of the expert of the claimant.
    ``(3) Any disclosure under paragraph (1) with respect to an expert 
described in such paragraph shall not include an identification of the 
expert.
    ``(4) If an expert described in paragraph (1) does not prepare a 
written report, the Secretary shall disclose the information required 
under this section to the claimant in writing.''.

SEC. 723. COMPTROLLER GENERAL STUDY ON IMPACT OF PERINATAL MENTAL 
              HEALTH CONDITIONS OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND 
              THEIR DEPENDENTS ON MILITARY READINESS AND RETENTION.

    (a) Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Comptroller General of the United 
        States shall conduct a study on perinatal mental health 
        conditions among members of the Armed Forces and dependents of 
        such members during the five-year period preceding the date of 
        the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Elements.--The study required under paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) An assessment of beneficiaries under the 
                TRICARE program, including members of the Armed Forces 
                and dependents of such members, who attempted suicide 
                or died by suicide or substance use overdose during the 
                perinatal period.
                    (B) An assessment of members of the Armed Forces 
                discharged from active duty due to a mental health 
                condition within two years after the perinatal period.
                    (C) An assessment of beneficiaries under the 
                TRICARE program, including members of the Armed Forces 
                and dependents of such members, diagnosed with a 
                perinatal mental health condition who were relocated 
                during the perinatal period.
                    (D) An assessment of the effects of retention and 
                promotion policies of the Department of Defense 
                relating to perinatal mental health conditions on 
                members of the Armed Forces seeking and accessing 
                screening, referral, and treatment.
                    (E) The number of members of the Armed Forces who 
                were separated from the Armed Forces or did not receive 
                a promotion due to a diagnosed perinatal mental health 
                condition.
                    (F) An assessment of whether policies of the 
                Department can be modified to provide clear standards 
                for retention and pathways for promotion of members of 
                the Armed Forces diagnosed with a perinatal mental 
                health condition.
                    (G) An assessment of resources needed to integrate 
                behavioral health specialists into all obstetric care 
                practices, pediatric practices, and women's clinics.
                    (H) A disaggregated demographic assessment of the 
                population included in the study with respect to race, 
                ethnicity, sex, age, family status (including dual 
                service and single parent families), military 
                occupation, military service, and rank, as applicable.
    (b) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on the findings of the study conducted under 
subsection (a), including--
            (1) recommendations for actions to be taken by the 
        Secretary of Defense to improve mental health among members of 
        the Armed Forces and dependents of such members during the 
        perinatal period;
            (2) recommendations for legislative or administrative 
        action to mitigate the effects of retention and promotion 
        policies of the Department of Defense on members of the Armed 
        Forces seeking and accessing mental health care during the 
        perinatal period; and
            (3) such other recommendations as the Comptroller General 
        determines appropriate.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Dependent; tricare program.--The terms ``dependent'' 
        and ``TRICARE program'' have the meanings given those terms in 
        section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.
            (2) Perinatal mental health condition.--The term 
        ``perinatal mental health condition'' means a mental health 
        disorder that onsets during the perinatal period.
            (3) Perinatal period.--The term ``perinatal period'' means 
        the period during pregnancy and the one-year period following 
        childbirth, still birth, or miscarriage.

SEC. 724. REPORT ON MENTAL AND BEHAVIORAL HEALTH SERVICES PROVIDED BY 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Director of the Defense Health Agency shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report that contains the following:
            (1) The current wait times for members of the Armed Forces, 
        including members of the Selected Reserve of the Ready Reserve 
        of a reserve component of the Armed Forces who are enrolled in 
        TRICARE Reserve Select under section 1076d of title 10, United 
        States Code, to receive mental and behavioral health services, 
        disaggregated by State.
            (2) An assessment of the number of additional mental and 
        behavioral health care providers needed for the Department of 
        Defense to meet established metrics associated with access to 
        mental and behavioral health services.
            (3) An explanation of the credentialing standards for 
        mental and behavioral health care providers of the Department, 
        including a comparison of those standards to the standards for 
        other Federal and private sector health care providers.

SEC. 725. REPORT ON ACTIVITIES OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO PREVENT, 
              INTERVENE, AND TREAT PERINATAL MENTAL HEALTH CONDITIONS 
              OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND THEIR DEPENDENTS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on the activities of the Department of Defense 
to address the mental health of pregnant and postpartum members of the 
Armed Forces and dependents of such members.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following
            (1) An identification of the military medical treatment 
        facilities at which the Secretary offers members of the Armed 
        Forces and their dependents evidence-based programs during the 
        perinatal period that are proven to prevent perinatal mental 
        health conditions.
            (2) An assessment of such programs offered at such 
        facilities, including an assessment of--
                    (A) the types of programs;
                    (B) the number and location of programs;
                    (C) the number of members of the Armed Forces and 
                their dependents who have participated in such 
                programs, disaggregated by Armed Force, military 
                occupation, sex, age, race, and ethnicity, when 
                applicable; and
                    (D) whether such programs are delivered in-person 
                or virtually and the frequency of the availability of 
                such programs;
            (3) The number of behavioral health specialists for 
        pregnant and postpartum members of the Armed Forces and 
        dependents integrated into obstetric care practices, 
        pediatrics, and women's clinics at military medical treatment 
        facilities.
            (4) An assessment of the implementation of, or plans to 
        implement, a pilot program to provide a reproductive behavioral 
        health consultation service by the Secretary as outlined in the 
        White House Blueprint for Addressing the Maternal Health 
        Crisis, dated June 2022, including--
                    (A) the number of providers the pilot program has 
                served or plans to serve, disaggregated by provider 
                type, specialty, and location;
                    (B) the number and type of trainings providers 
                received or will receive through the consultation line 
                on evidence-based practices to prevent, screen, refer, 
                and treat perinatal mental health conditions;
                    (C) the locations that have had or will have access 
                to the pilot program;
                    (D) the types of expertise services that the 
                consultation line provides or will provide; and
                    (E) methods currently used or that will be used to 
                promote the availability of the consultation line to 
                providers.
            (5) Any recommendations for legislative or administrative 
        action to improve prevention, intervention, and treatment of 
        perinatal mental health conditions for members of the Armed 
        Forces and their dependents.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Dependent.--The term ``dependent'' has the meaning 
        given that term in section 1072(2) of title 10, United States 
        Code.
            (2) Perinatal mental health condition.--The term 
        ``perinatal mental health condition'' means a mental health 
        disorder that occurs during pregnancy or within one year 
        following childbirth, stillbirth, or miscarriage.

SEC. 726. STUDY ON FAMILY PLANNING AND CRYOPRESERVATION OF GAMETES TO 
              IMPROVE RETENTION OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a study 
on--
            (1) the number of members of the Armed Forces who elect to 
        leave the Armed Forces for family planning reasons, 
        disaggregated by gender, age, and military occupational 
        specialty;
            (2) whether the option of cryopreservation of gametes would 
        lead to greater retention of members of the Armed Forces;
            (3) methods for the Department of Defense to offer 
        cryopreservation of gametes for the purposes of retention of 
        members of the Armed Forces;
            (4) the cost to the Department of offering cryopreservation 
        of gametes to active duty members of the Armed Forces; and
            (5) such other matters relating to family planning and 
        cryopreservation of gametes for members of the Armed Forces as 
        the Secretary considers relevant.
    (b) Briefing.--Not later than April 1, 2024, the Secretary shall 
brief the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives on the results of the study conducted under subsection 
(a).

  TITLE VIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

             Subtitle A--Acquisition Policy and Management

SEC. 801. AMENDMENTS TO MULTIYEAR PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY.

    Section 3501 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
                    (A) by striking ``will result in significant 
                savings'' and inserting the following: ``will result 
                in--
                    ``(A) significant savings''; and
                    (B) by striking ``annual contracts.'' and inserting 
                the following: ``annual contracts; or
                    ``(B) necessary industrial base stability not 
                otherwise achievable through annual contracts.''; and
            (2) by striking ``$500,000,000'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``$1,000,000,000''.

SEC. 802. MODERNIZING THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE REQUIREMENTS PROCESS.

    (a) Modernizing the Department of Defense Requirements Process.--
Not later than October 1, 2025, the Secretary of Defense, acting 
through the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in cooperation 
with the Secretaries of the military departments and the commanders of 
the combatant commands, and in coordination with the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, shall develop and implement a 
streamlined Department of Defense requirements process, to include 
modernizing the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 
in order to improve alignment between modern warfare concepts, 
technologies, and system development and reduce the time to delivery of 
needed capabilities to Department users.
    (b) Reform Elements.--The modernization activities conducted under 
subsection (a) shall include the following elements:
            (1) Streamlining requirements documents, reviews, and 
        approval processes, especially for programs below the major 
        defense acquisition program threshold described in section 4201 
        of title 10, United Stated Code.
            (2) Revisiting requirements management practices from a 
        first principles perspective based on mission outcomes and 
        assessed threats, enabling a more iterative and collaborative 
        approach with the services to shape requirements and technology 
        driven opportunities.
            (3) Developing a capability needs and requirements 
        framework and pathways that are aligned to the Department's 
        Adaptive Acquisition Framework pathways, and better aligned and 
        integrated with the Department's science and technology 
        processes.
            (4) Enabling the military departments to develop an 
        enduring set of requirements according to a set of capability 
        portfolios to provide a structure across acquisition programs 
        and research, which shall be articulated in a concise model and 
        document with a set of mission impact measures that capability 
        deliveries will seek to continuously improve.
            (5) Establishing a process to rapidly validate the military 
        utility of commercial solutions to meet capability needs or 
        opportunities in lieu of the traditional program-centric 
        requirements definition.
            (6) Retiring and replacing the Department of Defense 
        Architecture Framework with a new structure focused on enabling 
        interoperability through application program interfaces, 
        enterprise architectures and platforms, and government and 
        commercial standards.
            (7) Ensuring that requirements processes for software, 
        artificial intelligence, data, and related capability areas 
        enable a rapid, dynamic, and iterative approach than 
        traditional hardware systems.
    (c) Elements.--The implementation of streamlined requirements shall 
include the following elements:
            (1) Collaboration with industry, traditional and non-
        traditional defense companies, and the science and technology 
        community to capture their inputs and feedback on shaping the 
        Department's requirements processes to ensure it effectively 
        harnesses the innovation ecosystem.
            (2) Development of a formal career path, training, and 
        structure for requirements management professionals and chief 
        architects.
            (3) Publication of new policies, guidance, and templates 
        for the operational, requirements, and acquisition workforce in 
        online digital formats instead of large policy documents.
    (d) Interim Report.--Not later than October 1, 2024, the Secretary 
of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees an 
interim report on the modernization conducted by the Secretary under 
subsection (a), including--
            (1) a description of the modernization efforts;
            (2) the Department of Defense's plans to implement, 
        communicate, and continuously improve the modernization of the 
        Department's requirements processes and structure; and
            (3) any additional recommendations for legislation that the 
        Secretary determines appropriate.
    (e) Final Report.--Not later than October 1, 2025, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the Secretary of Defense and the congressional 
defense committees a final report describing activities carried out 
pursuant to subsections (b) and (c).

SEC. 803. HEAD OF CONTRACTING AUTHORITY FOR STRATEGIC CAPABILITIES 
              OFFICE.

    (a) Authority.--The Director of the Strategic Capabilities Office 
shall have the authority to conduct acquisition activities within the 
Strategic Capabilities Office.
    (b) Acquisition Executive.---
            (1) In general.--The staff of the Director shall include an 
        acquisition executive, who shall be responsible for the overall 
        supervision of acquisition matters for the Strategic 
        Capabilities Office. The acquisition executive shall have the 
        authority--
                    (A) to negotiate memoranda of agreement with the 
                military departments and Department of Defense 
                components to carry out the acquisition of equipment, 
                capabilities, and services on behalf of the Office;
                    (B) to supervise the acquisition of equipment, 
                capabilities, and services on behalf of the Office;
                    (C) to represent the Office in discussions with the 
                military departments regarding acquisition programs for 
                which the Office is a customer; and
                    (D) to work with the military departments to ensure 
                that the Office is appropriately represented in any 
                joint working group or integrated product team 
                regarding acquisition programs for which the Office is 
                a customer.
            (2) Delivery of acquisition solutions.--The acquisition 
        executive of the Strategic Capabilities Office shall be--
                    (A) responsible to the Director for rapidly 
                delivering acquisition solutions to meet validated 
                cyber operations-peculiar requirements;
                    (B) subordinate to the defense acquisition 
                executive in matters of acquisition;
                    (C) subject to the same oversight as the service 
                acquisition executives; and
                    (D) included on the distribution list for 
                acquisition directives and instructions of the 
                Department of Defense.
    (c) Implementation Plan Required.--The authority granted in 
subsection (a) shall become effective 30 days after the date on which 
the Secretary of Defense provides to the congressional defense 
committees a plan for implementation of those authorities under 
subsection (a). The plan shall include the following:
            (1) Summaries of the components to be negotiated in the 
        memoranda of agreement with the military departments and other 
        Department of Defense components to carry out the development, 
        acquisition, and sustainment of equipment, capabilities, and 
        services described in subsection (b)(1).
            (2) Negotiation and approval timelines for memorandum of 
        agreement.
            (3) A plan for oversight of the acquisition executive 
        established under subsection (b).
            (4) An assessment of the acquisition workforce needs of the 
        Strategic Capabilities Office to support the authority provided 
        under subsection (a) until 2028.
            (5) Other matters as appropriate.
    (d) Annual End-of-year Assessment.--Each year, the Under Secretary 
of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall review and assess the 
acquisition activities of the Strategic Capabilities Office, including 
contracting and acquisition documentation, for the previous fiscal year 
and provide any recommendations or feedback to the acquisition 
executive of the Strategic Capabilities Office.
    (e) Sunset.--
            (1) In general.--The authority provided under this section 
        shall terminate on September 30, 2028.
            (2) Limitation on duration of acquisitions.--The authority 
        under this section does not include major defense acquisition 
        programs, major automated information system programs, or 
        acquisitions of foundational infrastructure or software 
        architectures the duration of which is expected to last more 
        than five years.

SEC. 804. PILOT PROGRAM FOR THE USE OF INNOVATIVE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 
              STRATEGIES.

    (a) In General.--As soon as practicable, the Secretary of each 
military department shall designate one acquisition program within 
their service and the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
Sustainment shall designate one acquisition program within the 
Department of Defense Agencies and Field Activities for the use of 
innovative intellectual property strategies in order to acquire the 
necessary technical data rights required for the operations and 
maintenance of that system.
    (b) Briefing Requirement.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Sustainment, in coordination with the Secretaries of 
the military departments, shall provide a briefing to the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives with a 
detailed plan to implement the requirements of this section.
    (c) Annual Report.--Upon selection of the programs to be covered by 
this section and until the termination of this authority, the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, in coordination 
with the Secretaries of the military departments, shall provide an 
annual report to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives on the effectiveness of the pilot program in 
acquiring the data necessary to support timely, cost-effective 
maintenance and sustainment of the system and any recommendations for 
the applicability of lessons learned from this pilot program to future 
acquisition programs.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Department of defense agencies and field activities.--
        The terms ``Department of Defense Agency'' and ``Department of 
        Defense Field Activity'' have the meanings given those terms in 
        section 101 of title 10, United States Code.
            (2) Innovative intellectual property strategies.--The term 
        ``innovative intellectual property strategies'' includes the 
        following:
                    (A) The use of an escrow account to verify and hold 
                intellectual property data.
                    (B) The use of royalties or licenses.
                    (C) Other innovative strategies to acquire the 
                necessary level of intellectual property and data 
                rights to support the operations, maintenance, 
                installation, and training (OMIT) of the selected 
                program.
    (e) Sunset.--The authority to initiate a program under this section 
shall terminate on December 31, 2028.

SEC. 805. FOCUSED COMMERCIAL SOLUTIONS OPENINGS OPPORTUNITIES.

    (a) Requirement.--The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
the service acquisition executives of each military department, shall 
create not less than three new commercial solutions opening (CSO) 
opportunities pursuant to section 3458 of title 10, United States Code, 
each fiscal year. Each such CSO opportunities shall be dedicated to 
addressing the mission needs and integrated priority lists of a single 
geographic combatant command.
    (b) Execution.--In creating the CSO opportunities required under 
subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall--
            (1) assign the responsibility for issuing a CSO to a single 
        military department, with a program executive officer from that 
        military department assigned as lead; and
            (2) ensure that any program executive office (PEO) 
        assignment should be made to align the needs of the CSO with a 
        PEO that has similar existing requirements and funding for 
        transitioning technologies within the focus area.
    (c) Sunset.--The requirement in subsection (a) shall expire on 
September 30, 2027.

SEC. 806. STUDY ON REDUCING BARRIERS TO ACQUISITION OF COMMERCIAL 
              PRODUCTS AND SERVICES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, shall conduct a 
study on the feasibility and advisability of--
            (1) establishing a default determination that products and 
        services acquired by the Department of Defense are commercial 
        and do not require commercial determination as provided under 
        section 3456 of title 10, United States Code;
            (2) establishing a requirement for non-commercial 
        determinations to be made for acquisitions to use procedures 
        other than part 12 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation; and
            (3) mandating use of commercial procedures under part 12 of 
        the Federal Acquisition Regulation unless a justification of 
        non-commerciality is determined.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the findings of the study 
conducted under subsection (a). The report shall include specific 
findings with relevant data and proposed recommendations, including for 
any necessary and desirable modifications to applicable statute for any 
changes the Department seeks to make regarding paragraphs (1) through 
(3) of subsection (a).

SEC. 807. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON INDEPENDENT COST ASSESSMENT.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) to implement the National Defense Strategy, the 
        Department of Defense requires thoughtful and thorough analysis 
        to ensure efficient and effective use of each taxpayer dollar 
        to inform tradeoff analysis that delivers the optimum portfolio 
        of military capabilities;
            (2) the Secretary of Defense requires timely, insightful, 
        and unbiased analysis on cost estimation for major defense 
        acquisition programs; and
            (3) the Office of the Director of Cost Assessment and 
        Program Evaluation supports implementation of the National 
        Defense Strategy by--
                    (A) providing insight into the costs of major 
                defense acquisition programs and other technology 
                development initiatives that enables responsible 
                budgeting and proactive management decisions so that 
                the Department can control cost, drive efficiency, and 
                achieve savings;
                    (B) ensuring that the cost estimation workforce of 
                the Department of Defense is using the most modern and 
                realistic cost estimation methodologies, tools, and 
                tradecraft, including the collection and distribution 
                of data through the Cost Assessment Data Enterprise; 
                and
                    (C) providing timely review and oversight of cost 
                estimates performed by the defense agencies and 
                military departments.

SEC. 808. EMERGENCY ACQUISITION AUTHORITY FOR PURPOSES OF REPLENISHING 
              UNITED STATES STOCKPILES.

    Section 3601(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)(iv), by striking ``; or'' and 
        inserting a semicolon;
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(C) for purposes of--
                            ``(i) replenishing United States stockpiles 
                        with like defense articles when those 
                        stockpiles are diminished as a result of the 
                        United States providing defense articles in 
                        response to an armed attack by a country of 
                        concern (as that term is defined in section 
                        1(m) of the State Department Basic Authorities 
                        Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2651a(m)) against--
                                    ``(I) a United States ally (as that 
                                term is defined in section 201(d) of 
                                the Act of December 2, 1942, entitled, 
                                `To provide benefits for the injury, 
                                disability, death, or enemy detention 
                                of employees of contractors with the 
                                United States, and for other purposes' 
                                (56 Stat. 1028, chapter 668; 42 U.S.C. 
                                1711(d))); or
                                    ``(II) a United States partner; or
                            ``(ii) contracting for the movement or 
                        delivery of defense articles transferred to 
                        such ally or partner through the President's 
                        drawdown authorities in connection with such 
                        response,
                provided that the United States is not a party to the 
                hostilities.''.

Subtitle B--Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, 
                            and Limitations

SEC. 811. COMMANDER INITIATED RAPID CONTRACTING ACTIONS.

    (a) In General.--The commander of a combatant command, upon 
providing a written determination to a supporting head (or heads) of 
contracting activity (HCA), may request emergency, rapid contracting 
response using special authorities described in subsection (b)--
            (1) in support of a contingency operation (as defined in 
        section 101(a) of title 10, United States Code);
            (2) to facilitate the defense against or recovery from 
        cyber, nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological attack 
        against the United States;
            (3) in support of a humanitarian or peacekeeping operation 
        (as the term is defined in section 3015(2) of title 10, United 
        States Code); and
            (4) for purposes of protecting the national security 
        interests of the United States during directed operations that 
        fall below the level of armed conflict.
    (b) Applicability.--In carrying out subsection (a), the HCA may 
utilize the following authorities to rapidly respond to time-sensitive 
or unplanned emergency situations:
            (1) For actions taken under subsection (a) in the case of a 
        contract to be awarded and performed, or purchase to be made, 
        in the United States, simplified procedures for a single 
        contracting action may be used up to $15,000.
            (2) For actions taken under subsection (a) in the case of a 
        contract to be awarded and performed, or purchase to be made, 
        outside the United States, simplified procedures for a single 
        contracting action may be used up to $25,000.
            (3) For purposes of section 3205(a)(2) of title 10, United 
        States Code, the applicable threshold is deemed to be 
        $10,000,000.
            (4) The property or service being procured may be treated 
        as a commercial product or a commercial service for the purpose 
        of carrying out the procurement.
    (c) Determination.--A written determination required under 
subsection (a) may be used to cover more than one requested action, and 
may be directed to more than one HCA, and shall include:
            (1) The rationale for initiating the request in accordance 
        with paragraphs (1) though (4) of such subsection.
            (2) A description of the actions being requested of the 
        HCA.
            (3) A declaration that funds are available for such 
        requested contracting support.
    (d) Sunset.--The authority under subsection (a) shall terminate on 
September 30, 2028.
    (e) Annual Report.--Not later than January 15, 2025, and annually 
thereafter for four years, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, 
in coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
Sustainment, shall provide a report to the congressional defense 
committees on the use of the authority under this section for the 
previous fiscal year. The report shall include a summary of each 
instance of the authority being used, including--
            (1) the combatant command initiating the action or actions;
            (2) the supporting HCA or HCAs; and
            (3) the specific actions requested, including the contract 
        performer and value of contracting action.

SEC. 812. EXTENSION AND REVISIONS TO NEVER CONTRACT WITH THE ENEMY.

    (a) In General.--Section 841 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
(Public Law 113-291; 10 U.S.C. 4871 note prec.) is amended--
            (1) by striking the section heading and inserting ``threat 
        mitigation in commercial support to operations'';
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking the subsection heading and 
                inserting ``Program Established'';
                    (B) by striking ``and in consultation with the 
                Secretary of State'' and all that follows through the 
                period at the end and inserting ``and the Secretary of 
                State, establish a program to enable combatant 
                commanders to identify and manage risks introduced by 
                covered persons and entities providing commercial 
                support to military operations. The Secretary of 
                Defense shall publish policy establishing this program 
                with responsibilities for program execution and 
                oversight and procedures for use of available 
                intelligence, security, and law enforcement information 
                to identify threats and employment of a range of 
                strategies, including the covered procurement actions 
                described in this section, to manage risks posed by 
                covered persons and entities that are engaged in 
                covered activities.'';
            (3) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:
    ``(b) Authority.--
            ``(1) Identification.--The combatant commander shall 
        identify covered persons or entities engaged in covered 
        activities through the program established under subsection 
        (a). Upon identification of a covered person or entity, 
        combatant commanders, or their designated deputies, shall 
        notify and provide rationale for such an identification to the 
        Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, the 
        Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security, and 
        the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.
            ``(2) Covered procurement actions.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The head of a contracting 
                activity may exercise a covered procurement action on a 
                covered persons or entity.
                    ``(B) Limitation on covered procurement actions.--
                The head of a contracting activity may exercise a 
                covered procurement action only after receiving a 
                notification and recommendation from the Under 
                Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, 
                based on a risk assessment by the identifying combatant 
                commander, that states that--
                            ``(i) the person or entity identified by 
                        the combatant commander meets the criteria for 
                        a covered person or entity and was or is 
                        actively engaged in one or more covered 
                        activities; and
                            ``(ii) less intrusive measures are not 
                        reasonably available to manage the risk.'';
            (4) by amending subsection (c) to read as follows:
    ``(c) Notification to Covered Person or Entity.--
            ``(1) Advance notice.--Contracting activities shall notify 
        covered persons and entities through covered solicitations and 
        contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements of the following 
        matters:
                    ``(A) The program established under subsection (a).
                    ``(B) The authorities established under subsection 
                (b).
                    ``(C) The responsibilities of covered persons or 
                entities to exercise due diligence to mitigate their 
                engagement in covered activities.
            ``(2) Notice of covered procurement actions.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Upon exercising a covered 
                procurement action, the head of a contracting activity 
                shall notify the covered person or entity of the 
                action. The covered person or entity shall be permitted 
                the opportunity to challenge the covered procurement 
                action by requesting an administrative review of the 
                action under the procedures of the Department of 
                Defense not later than 30 days after receipt of notice 
                of the action.
                    ``(B) Limitation on disclosure of information.--
                Full disclosure of information to a covered person or 
                entity justifying an identification made under 
                subsection (b)(1) or a covered procurement action need 
                not be provided when such a disclosure would compromise 
                national security or would pose an unacceptable threat 
                to personnel of the United States or partners and 
                allies.
                    ``(C) Protection of classified information.--
                Classified information relied upon to exercise a 
                covered procurement action may not be disclosed to a 
                covered person or entity, or to their representatives, 
                unless a protective order issued by a court of 
                competent jurisdiction established under article I or 
                article III of the Constitution of the United States 
                specifically addresses the conditions under which such 
                classified information may be disclosed.'';
            (5) by amending subsection (d) to read as follows:
    ``(d) Covered Procurement Action Reporting.--All covered 
procurement actions shall be reported to the Under Secretary of Defense 
for Acquisition and Sustainment and reported in the Federal Awardee 
Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS) or other formal 
systems or record. Exclusions shall also be reported in the System for 
Award Management (SAM).'';
            (6) by amending subsection (e) to read as follows:
    ``(e) Annual Review.--The Secretary of Defense, in coordination 
with the Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary of State, 
shall, on an annual basis, review the lists of persons and entities 
having been subject to a covered procurement action under subsection 
(b)(2) to determine whether or not such persons and entities continue 
to warrant use of the covered procurement action.'';
            (7) by amending subsection (f) to read as follows:
    ``(f) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense, in conjunction with the 
Secretary of State, may grant a waiver for actions taken under 
subsection (b) if it is in the best interest of national security.'';
            (8) by amending subsection (g) to read as follows:
    ``(g) Delegation of Authority.--The authority provided by 
subsection (b) to make a determination to use a covered procurement 
action, in whole or in part, may not be delegated below the level of 
head of contracting activity, or equivalent official for purposes of 
grants or cooperative agreements.'';
            (9) by amending subsection (h) to read as follows:
    ``(h) Updating Regulations.--The Federal Acquisition Regulation and 
the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement shall be revised 
to implement the provisions of this subtitle.'';
            (10) in subsection (i)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``Director of the Office of 
                        Management and Budget'' and inserting 
                        ``Secretary of Defense'';
                            (ii) by striking ``appropriate committees 
                        of Congress'' and inserting ``congressional 
                        defense committees'';
                            (iii) in subparagraph (A)--
                                    (I) by striking ``an executive 
                                agency exercised the authority to 
                                terminate, void, or restrict a 
                                contract, grant, and cooperative 
                                agreement pursuant to subsection (c), 
                                based on a notification under 
                                subsection (b)'' and inserting ``a head 
                                of contracting activity exercised a 
                                covered procurement action'';
                                    (II) in clause (i) by striking 
                                ``executive agency'' and inserting 
                                ``head of contracting activity'';
                                    (III) in clause (ii), by striking 
                                ``the action taken'' and inserting 
                                ``exercising the covered procurement 
                                action'';
                                    (IV) in clause (iii), by striking 
                                ``voided or terminated'' and inserting 
                                ``subject to the covered procurement 
                                action''; and
                                    (V) in clause (iv)--
                                            (aa) by striking 
                                        ``executive agency in force'' 
                                        and inserting ``Department of 
                                        Defense has'' and
                                            (bb) by striking 
                                        ``concerned at the time the 
                                        contract, grant, or cooperative 
                                        agreement was terminated or 
                                        voided'' and replacing with 
                                        ``at the time of exercise of 
                                        the covered procurement 
                                        action''; and
                            (iv) in subparagraph (B)--
                                    (I) by striking ``an executive 
                                agency did not exercise the authority 
                                to terminate, void, or restrict a 
                                contract, grant, and cooperative 
                                agreement pursuant to subsection (c), 
                                based on a notification under 
                                subsection (b)'' and inserting ``a head 
                                of contracting activity did not 
                                exercise a covered procurement action 
                                following an identification from a 
                                combatant commander'';
                                    (II) in clause (i), by striking 
                                ``executive agency'' and inserting 
                                ``head of contracting activity''; and
                                    (III) in clause (ii), by inserting 
                                ``covered procurement'' before 
                                ``action''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``Director'' and 
                inserting ``Secretary of Defense'';
            (11) by striking subsection (j) and (m) and redesignating 
        subsections (k), (l), and (n) as subsections (j), (k), and (l), 
        respectively;
            (12) in subsection (k), as redesignated by paragraph (11), 
        by striking ``Except as provided in subsection (l), the'' and 
        inserting ``The''; and
            (13) in subsection (l), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``December 31, 2025'' and inserting ``December 31, 2033''.
    (b) Access to Records.--Section 842 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
is amended by striking subsections (a) through (c) and inserting the 
following:
    ``(a) Additional Access to Records.--The Secretary of Defense may 
examine any records of persons or entities that have existing contracts 
with, or are active recipients of a grant or cooperative agreement 
from, the Department of Defense, including any subcontractors or 
subgrantees, to the extent necessary to support the program established 
under section 841 of this Act.
    ``(b) Limitation.--The examination authorized under subsection (a) 
may only take place after a written determination is made by the 
contracting officer, informed by a finding from the combatant 
commander, stating that this examination will support the program 
established under such section 841, and less intrusive measures are not 
reasonably available to manage the risk.''.
    (c) Definitions.--Section 843 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4), (7), and (9) 
        and redesignating paragraphs (5), (6), and (8) as paragraphs 
        (2), (3), and (6);
            (2) by inserting before paragraph (2), as redesignated by 
        paragraph (1) of this section, the following new paragraph:
            ``(1) Covered activities.--The term `covered activities' 
        means activities where a covered person or entity is--
                    ``(A) engaging in acts of violence against 
                personnel of the United States or partners and allies;
                    ``(B) providing financing, logistics, training, or 
                intelligence to a person described in subparagraph (A);
                    ``(C) engaging in foreign intelligence activities 
                against the United States or partners and allies;
                    ``(D) engaging in transnational organized crime or 
                criminal activities; or
                    ``(E) engaging in other activities that present a 
                direct or indirect risk to United States or partner and 
                allied missions and forces.'';
            (3) in paragraph (2), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``with an estimated value in excess of $50,000 that is 
        performed outside the United States, including its territories 
        and possessions, in support'' and all that follows through the 
        period at the end and inserting ``that is performed outside the 
        United States, including its territories and possessions.'';
            (4) by amending paragraph (3), as so redesignated, to read 
        as follows:
            ``(3) Covered person or entity.--The term `covered person 
        or entity' means any person, corporation, company, limited 
        liability company, limited partnership, business trust, 
        business association, or other similar entity outside of the 
        United States or any foreign reporting company in accordance 
        with section 5336(a)(11)(A)(ii) of title 31, United States 
        Code, that is responding to a covered solicitation or 
        performing work on a covered contract, grant, or cooperative 
        agreement.''; and
            (5) by inserting after paragraph (3), as so redesignated, 
        the following new paragraphs:
            ``(4) Covered procurement action.--The term `covered 
        procurement action'means an action taken by a head of 
        contracting activity to--
                    ``(A) exclude a person or commercial entity from 
                award with or without an existing contract, grant, or 
                cooperative agreement;
                    ``(B) terminate an existing contract, grant, or 
                cooperative agreement for default; or
                    ``(C) void in whole or in part an existing 
                contract, grant, or cooperative agreement.
            ``(5) Covered solicitation.--The term `covered 
        solicitation' means any Department of Defense solicitation for 
        work for which the place of performance is outside of the 
        United States.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect not later than 180 days after the enactment of this Act, and 
shall apply to covered solicitations issued and covered contracts, 
grants, or cooperative agreements (as that term is defined in section 
843 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015, as amended by subsection (c)) 
awarded on or after such date, and to task and delivery orders that 
have been issued on or after such date pursuant to covered contracts, 
grants, or cooperative agreements that are awarded before, on, or after 
such date.

SEC. 813. ENHANCEMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CAPABILITIES TO PREVENT 
              CONTRACTOR FRAUD.

    (a) Withholding of Contractual Payments.--Subsection (a) of section 
4651 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``clause (1)'' and inserting 
                ``paragraph (1)''; and
                    (B) by striking ``at least three, but not more than 
                10, as determined by the Secretary or his designee, 
                times the cost incurred by the contractor in giving 
                gratuities to the officer, official, or employee 
                concerned.'' and inserting ``of up to 10 percent of the 
                total contract award amount;'';
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
        paragraphs:
            ``(3) with respect to a contract that could have been 
        terminated under paragraph (1) but for the completion of 
        performance of the contract, the United States is entitled to 
        exemplary damages as set forth in paragraph (2); and
            ``(4) the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a 
        military department may, after providing notice to the 
        contractor and pending the determination concerning exemplary 
        damages referred to in paragraph (2), withhold from payments 
        otherwise due to the contractor under any contract between the 
        contractor and the United States an amount not to exceed 10 
        percent of the total contract award amount.''; and
            (4) in the matter following paragraph (4), as added by 
        paragraph (3) of this subsection, by striking ``clause (1)'' 
        and inserting ``paragraph (1)''.
    (b) Burden of Proof.--Paragraph (1) of section 4651(a) of title 10, 
United States Code, as amended by subsection (a) of this section, is 
further amended by inserting ``and by a preponderance of the evidence'' 
after ``after notice and hearing''.

SEC. 814. MODIFICATION OF APPROVAL AUTHORITY FOR HIGH DOLLAR OTHER 
              TRANSACTION AGREEMENTS FOR PROTOTYPES.

    (a) Amendments Relating to Authority.--Section 4022(a)(2)(C)(i)(I) 
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after 
``subsection (d)'' the following: ``were met for the prior transaction 
for the prototype project that provided for the award of the follow-on 
production contract or transaction, and the requirements of subsection 
(f)''.
    (b) Amendment Relating to Appropriate Use of Authority.--Section 
4022(d) of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
    ``(3) The requirements of this subsection do not apply to follow-on 
production contracts or transactions under subsection (f).''.

SEC. 815. MODIFICATIONS TO EARNED VALUE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary for Acquisition and 
Sustainment shall update appropriate policies related to Earned Value 
Management (EVM) as follows:
            (1) Update subpart 234.2 of the Defense Federal Acquisition 
        Regulation Supplement (DFARS) to exempt all software contracts 
        and subcontracts from EVM requirements.
            (2) Update sections 234.201, 234.203, 252.234-7001, and 
        252.242-7002 of the DFARS--
                    (A) to increase contract value thresholds 
                associated with requiring EVM on cost or incentive 
                contracts from $20,000,000 to $50,000,000; and
                    (B) to increase the contract value threshold for 
                the contractor to use an EVM System from $50,000,000 to 
                $100,000,000.
    (b) Implementation.--If the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Sustainment is unable to update the regulations 
specified in subsection (a) before the deadline specified in such 
subsection, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
Sustainment shall providing to the Committee on Armed Services of the 
Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
Representatives a briefing explaining the timeline for implementation.

SEC. 816. INVENTORY OF INFLATION AND ESCALATION INDICES.

    (a) Inventory Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than September 30, 2024, the 
        Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, in 
        coordination with the Service Acquisition Executives, shall 
        conduct an inventory of inflation and escalation indices 
        currently used for contracting and pricing purposes across the 
        Department and make the inventory available as a resource for 
        all government and industry contracting and pricing 
        professionals.
            (2) Elements.--The inventory required under paragraph (1)--
                    (A) shall include indices used for products and 
                indices used for services, including accessibility 
                instructions;
                    (B) may include relevant indices derived from or 
                leveraged by commercial, academic, or nongovernmental 
                sources; and
                    (C) shall separately identify indices for which the 
                Department of Defense purchases access.
    (b) Assessment.--As part of the inventory required under subsection 
(a), the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment 
shall also conduct an assessment of the available inflation and 
escalation indices in order to determine--
            (1) gaps in any available indices where identification or 
        development of new indices may be necessary; and
            (2) in instances where there are multiple indices being 
        used--
                    (A) whether consolidation on a single index or 
                smaller subset of indices is possible or advisable; and
                    (B) whether commercial, academic, or 
                nongovernmental indices have any comparative benefit or 
                advantage over governmental sources.
    (c) Periodic Updates.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Sustainment shall periodically, and not less than once 
every 5 years, review and update the inventory required under 
subsection (a).
    (d) Guidance.--Not later than March 30, 2025, the Under Secretary 
of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, in coordination with the 
Service Acquisition Executives, shall issue guidance providing for the 
consistent application and maintenance of data included in the 
inventory required under subsection (a) for use by government 
contracting and pricing personnel.

SEC. 817. PILOT PROGRAM TO INCENTIVIZE PROGRESS PAYMENTS.

    (a) Pilot Program.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition 
and Sustainment shall establish and implement a pilot program to 
incentivize large business concerns awarded Department of Defense 
contracts to qualify for progress payments up to 10 percentage points 
higher than the standard progress payment rate.
    (b) Incentives.--The Under Secretary for Acquisition and 
Sustainment shall establish clear and measurable criteria to provide 
for the payment to contractors of higher progress payments as described 
in subsection (a), including meeting one or more of the following 
criteria:
            (1) Adherence to delivery dates for contract end items and 
        contract data requirement lists or compliance with the 
        performance milestone schedule during the preceding fiscal 
        year.
            (2) The lack of any open level III or IV corrective action 
        requests.
            (3) Acceptability of the contractor's business systems 
        without significant deficiencies.
            (4) Meeting small business subcontracting goals during the 
        preceding fiscal year.
    (c) Report.--The Under Secretary for Acquisition and Sustainment 
shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
House of Representatives an annual report on the implementation of the 
pilot program established under subsection (a), including a 
comprehensive list of contractors and the contracts that received the 
increased progress payments.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Standard progress payment rate.--The term ``standard 
        progress payment rate'' refers to the rate of progress payments 
        provided for under section 3804 of title 10, United States 
        Code, and payable in accordance with the applicable provisions 
        of the Federal Acquisition Regulation and the Defense Federal 
        Acquisition Regulation Supplement.
            (2) Large business concerns.--The term ``large business 
        concerns'' means a business concern that exceeds the small 
        business size code standards established by the Small Business 
        Administration as set forth in part 121 of title 13, Code of 
        Federal Regulations.
    (e) Sunset.--The authority to carry out the pilot program 
established under subsection (a) shall terminate on January 1, 2026.

SEC. 818. EXTENSION OF PILOT PROGRAM TO ACCELERATE CONTRACTING AND 
              PRICING PROCESSES.

    Section 890 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), as most recently amended 
by section 818 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2023, is further amended in subsection (c) by 
striking ``January 2, 2024'' and inserting ``January 2, 2028''.

SEC. 819. PREVENTING CONFLICTS OF INTEREST FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              CONSULTANTS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall amend the Defense 
Federal Acquisition Regulation--
            (1) to require any entity that provides the services 
        described in North American Industry Classification System 
        (NAICS) code 5416, prior to entering into the Department of 
        Defense contract, to certify that--
                    (A) neither the entity nor any of its subsidiaries 
                or affiliates hold a contract with one or more covered 
                foreign entities; or
                    (B) the entity maintains a Conflict of Interest 
                Mitigation Surveillance Plan described under subsection 
                (b) that is auditable by contract oversight entities; 
                and
            (2) to restrict Department of Defense contracts from being 
        awarded to an entity that provides the services described under 
        the NAICS code 5416, if the entity or any of its subsidiaries 
        or affiliates are determined, based on the self-certification 
        required under paragraph (1) or other information, to be a 
        contractor of, or otherwise providing services to, a covered 
        foreign entity unless such contractor maintains an enforceable 
        Conflict of Interest Mitigation Surveillance Plan.
    (b) Conflict of Interest Mitigation Surveillance Plan.--Contractors 
that are unable to certify under subsection (a)(1)(A) that neither they 
nor any of their subsidiaries or affiliates hold a contract with one or 
more covered foreign entities shall maintain a Conflict of Interest 
Mitigation Surveillance Plan that is updated annually and shall be 
provided to applicable contract oversight entities upon request. The 
plan shall include--
            (1) identification of the contracts with the covered 
        foreign entity (or entities) including the specific entity, the 
        dollar value of the contract, and the specific personnel 
        working on the contract;
            (2) mitigation measures being taken to prevent conflicts of 
        interest (corporately as well as for individuals working on the 
        contract) that might arise by also supporting Department of 
        Defense contracts; and
            (3) notification procedures to the contract oversight 
        entities within 15 days of determining an unmitigated conflict 
        of interest has arisen.
    (c) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense, or designee, shall have the 
authority to waive conflicts of interest restrictions under subsection 
(a) on a case-by-case basis as may be necessary to continue contracting 
for certain national security requirements. The Secretary of Defense 
may not delegate such authority to an official below the level of a 
Presidentially appointed, Senate-confirmed official.
    (d) Waiver Notification.--Not later than 30 days after issuing a 
waiver under subsection (c) of this section, the Secretary of Defense 
shall provide a written notification to the Committee on Armed Services 
of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
Representatives regarding the use of such waiver authority. The 
notification shall include--
            (1) the specific justification for providing the waiver;
            (2) the covered foreign entity with which the waiver 
        recipient is working which gives rise to the conflict of 
        interest;
            (3) the number of bidders on a contract on which the waiver 
        was required;
            (4) the number of bidders on a contract for which a waiver 
        would not have been required to have been issued; and
            (5) the total dollar value of the contract.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Covered foreign entity.--The term ``covered foreign 
        entity'' means any of the following:
                    (A) The Government of the People's Republic of 
                China, any Chinese state-owned entity, or other entity 
                under the ownership, or control, directly or 
                indirectly, of the Government of the People's Republic 
                of China or the Chinese Communist Party that is engaged 
                in one or more national security industries.
                    (B) The Government of the Russian Federation, any 
                Russian state-owned entity, or any entity sanctioned by 
                the Secretary of the Treasury under Executive Order 
                13662 titled ``Blocking Property of Additional Persons 
                Contributing to the Situation in Ukraine''(79 Fed. Reg. 
                16169).
                    (C) The government or any state-owned entity of any 
                country if the Secretary of State determines that such 
                government has repeatedly provided support for acts of 
                international terrorism pursuant to--
                            (i) section 1754(c)(1)(A) of the Export 
                        Control Reform Act of 2018 (50 U.S.C. 
                        4318(c)(1)(A));
                            (ii) section 620A of the Foreign Assistance 
                        Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2371);
                            (iii) section 40 of the Arms Export Control 
                        Act (22 U.S.C. 2780); or
                            (iv) any other provision of law.
                    (D) Any entity included on any of the following 
                lists maintained by the Department of Commerce:
                            (i) The Entity List set forth in Supplement 
                        No. 4 to part 744 of the Export Administration 
                        Regulations.
                            (ii) The Denied Persons List as described 
                        in section 764.3(a)(2) of the Export 
                        Administration Regulations.
                            (iii) The Unverified List set forth in 
                        Supplement No. 6 to part 744 of the Export 
                        Administration Regulations.
                            (iv) The Military End User List set forth 
                        in Supplement No. 7 to part 744 of the Export 
                        Administration Regulations.
            (2) Contract oversight entities.--The term ``contract 
        oversight entities'' means any of the following:
                    (A) The contracting officer.
                    (B) The contracting officer representative.
                    (C) The Defense Contract Management Agency.
                    (D) The Defense Contract Audit Agency.
                    (E) The Office of Inspector General (OIG) of the 
                Department of Defense or any subcomponent of OIG.
                    (F) The Government Accountability Office.

SEC. 820. PROHIBITION ON REQUIRING DEFENSE CONTRACTORS TO PROVIDE 
              INFORMATION RELATING TO GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Greenhouse gas.--The term ``greenhouse gas'' means--
                    (A) carbon dioxide;
                    (B) methane;
                    (C) nitrous oxide;
                    (D) nitrogen trifluoride;
                    (E) hydrofluorocarbons;
                    (F) perfluorcarbons; or
                    (G) sulfur hexafluoride.
            (2) Greenhouse gas inventory.--The term ``greenhouse gas 
        inventory'' means a quantified list of an entity's annual 
        greenhouse gas emissions.
            (3) Nontraditional defense contractor.--The term 
        ``nontraditional defense contractor'' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 3014 of title 10, United States Code.
    (b) Prohibition on Disclosure Requirements.--
            (1) Nontraditional defense contractors.--The Secretary of 
        Defense may not require any nontraditional defense contractor 
        recipient of a defense contract to provide a greenhouse gas 
        inventory or to provide any other report on greenhouse gas 
        emissions.
            (2) Other than nontraditional defense contractors.--During 
        the two-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of 
        this Act, the Secretary of Defense may not require any other 
        than nontraditional defense contractor recipient of a defense 
        contract to provide a greenhouse gas inventory or to provide 
        any other report on greenhouse gas emissions.

SEC. 821. PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTS FOR THE PROVISION OF ONLINE TUTORING 
              SERVICES BY ENTITIES OWNED BY THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF 
              CHINA.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may not, on or after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, enter into or renew a contract for 
the provision of online tutoring services by an entity owned or 
controlled by the Government of the People's Republic of China.
    (b) Waiver.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may waive the prohibition 
        under subsection (a).
            (2) Nondelegation.--The Secretary may not delegate the 
        authority to issue a waiver under paragraph (1).

SEC. 822. MODIFICATION OF TRUTHFUL COST OR PRICING DATA SUBMISSIONS AND 
              REPORT.

    Section 3705(b)(2)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
by striking ``should-cost analysis.'' and all that follows through 
``past performance.'' and inserting ``should-cost analysis and shall 
identify such offerors that incur a delay greater than 200 days in 
submitting such cost or pricing data. The Secretary of Defense shall 
include a public notation on such offerors.''.

SEC. 823. REPEAL OF BONAFIDE OFFICE RULE FOR 8(A) CONTRACTS WITH THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    Section 8(a)(11) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(11)) 
is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(A)'' before ``To the maximum''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(B) Subparagraph (A) shall not apply with respect to a 
        contract entered into under this subsection with the Department 
        of Defense.''.

                  Subtitle C--Industrial Base Matters

SEC. 831. DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE ADVANCED CAPABILITIES PILOT PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment shall carry out a pilot program 
        through a public-private partnership to accelerate the scaling, 
        production, and acquisition of advanced defense capabilities 
        determined by the Under Secretary to be critical to the 
        national security by creating incentives for investment in 
        domestic small businesses or nontraditional businesses to 
        create a robust and resilient defense industrial base.
            (2) Goals.--The goals of the public-private partnership 
        pilot program are as follows:
                    (A) To bolster the defense industrial base through 
                acquisition and deployment of advanced capabilities 
                necessary to field Department of Defense modernization 
                programs and priorities.
                    (B) To strengthen domestic defense supply chain 
                resilience and capacity by investing in innovative 
                defense companies.
                    (C) To leverage private equity capital to 
                accelerate domestic defense scaling, production, and 
                manufacturing.
    (b) Public-private Partnerships.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out subsection (a), the Under 
        Secretary shall enter into one or more public-private 
        partnerships, consistent with the phased implementation 
        provided for in subsection (e), with for-profit persons using 
        the criteria set forth in paragraph (2).
            (2) Criteria.--The Under Secretary shall establish criteria 
        for entering into one or more public-private partnerships and 
        shall submit to the congressional defense committees such 
        criteria, which shall not take effect for the purposes of 
        entering into any agreement until 30 days after submission.
            (3) Operating agreement.--The Under Secretary and a person 
        or persons with whom the Under Secretary enters a partnership 
        under paragraph (1) shall enter into an operating agreement 
        that sets forth the roles, responsibilities, authorities, 
        reporting requirements, term, and governance framework for the 
        partnership and its operations. Such operating agreements may 
        not take effect until 30 days after they have been submitted to 
        the congressional defense committees.
    (c) Investment of Equity.--
            (1) In general.--Pursuant to public-private partnerships 
        entered into under subsection (b), a person or persons with 
        whom the Under Secretary has entered into a partnership may 
        invest equity in domestic small businesses or nontraditional 
        businesses consistent with subsection (a), with investments 
        selected based on technical merit, economic value, and the 
        Department's modernization priorities. The partnership shall 
        require investment in not less than 10 businesses, with no 
        business representing greater than 20 percent of total 
        investment and no capability area exceeding 40 percent of total 
        investment
            (2) Authorities.--A person or persons described in 
        paragraph (1) shall have sole authority to operate, manage, and 
        invest.
    (d) Loan Guarantee.--
            (1) In general.--Pursuant to the authority established 
        under [section __] the Under Secretary shall provide an up to 
        80 percent loan guarantee, pursuant to the public-private 
        partnerships entered into under subsection (b), with investment 
        of equity that qualifies under subsection (c) and consistent 
        with the goals set forth under subsection (a)(2).
            (2) Pilot program authority.--The temporary loan guarantee 
        authority described under paragraph (1) is exclusively for the 
        public-private partnerships authorized under this section and 
        may not be utilized for other programs or purposes.
            (3) Subject to operating agreement.--The loan guarantee 
        under paragraph (1) shall be subject to the operating agreement 
        entered into under subsection (b)(3).
            (4) Use of funds.--Obligations incurred by the Under 
        Secretary under this paragraph shall be subject to the 
        availability of funds provided in advance specifically for the 
        purpose of such loan guarantees.
    (e) Phased Implementation Schedule and Required Reports and 
Briefings.--The program established under subsection (a) shall be 
carried out in two phases as follows:
            (1) Phase 1.--
                    (A) In general.--Phase 1 shall consist of an 
                initial pilot program with one public-private 
                partnership, consistent with subsection (b), to assess 
                the feasibility and advisability of expanding the scope 
                of the program. The Under Secretary shall begin 
                implementation of phase 1 not later than 180 days after 
                the date of the enactment of this Act.
                    (B) Implementation schedule and framework.--Not 
                later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of 
                this Act, the Secretary shall submit an implementation 
                plan to the congressional defense committees on the 
                design of phase 1. The plan shall include--
                            (i) an overview of, and the activities 
                        undertaken, to execute the public-private 
                        partnership;
                            (ii) a description of the advanced 
                        capabilities and defense industrial base areas 
                        under consideration for investment;
                            (iii) an overview of the operating 
                        agreement described in subsection (b)(3); and
                            (iv) implementation milestones and metrics.
                    (C) Report and briefing required.--Not later than 
                27 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
                the Secretary shall provide to the congressional 
                defense committees a report and briefing on the 
                implementation of this section and the feasibility and 
                advisability of expanding the scope of the pilot 
                program. The report and briefing shall include, at 
                minimum--
                            (i) an overview of program performance, and 
                        implementation and execution milestones and 
                        outcomes;
                            (ii) an overview of progress in--
                                    (I) achieving new products in 
                                production aligned with Department of 
                                Defense needs;
                                    (II) scaling businesses aligned to 
                                targeted industrial base and capability 
                                areas;
                                    (III) generating defense industrial 
                                base job growth;
                                    (IV) increasing supply chain 
                                resilience and capacity; and
                                    (V) enhancing competition on 
                                advanced capability programs;
                            (iii) an accounting of activities 
                        undertaken and outline of the opportunities and 
                        benefits of expanding the scope of the pilot 
                        program; and
                            (iv) a recommendation by the Secretary 
                        regarding the feasibility and desirability of 
                        expanding the pilot program.
            (2) Phase 2.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 30 months after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary may 
                expand the scope of the phase 1 pilot program with the 
                ability to increase to not more than three public-
                private partnerships, consistent with subsection (b).
                    (B) Report and briefing required.--Not later than 
                five years after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
                the Secretary shall provide to the congressional 
                defense committees a report and briefing on the 
                outcomes of the pilot program under subsection (a), 
                including the elements described in paragraph (1)(C), 
                and the feasibility and advisability of making the 
                program permanent.
    (f) Termination.--The authority to enter into an agreement to carry 
out the pilot program under subsection (a) shall terminate on the date 
that is five years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Domestic business.--The term ``domestic business'' has 
        the meaning given the term ``U.S. business'' in section 800.252 
        of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations, or successor 
        regulation.
            (2) Domestic small businesses or nontraditional 
        businesses.--The term ``domestic small businesses or 
        nontraditional businesses'' means--
                    (A) a small business that is a domestic business; 
                or
                    (B) a nontraditional business that is a domestic 
                business.
            (3) Nontraditional business.--The term ``nontraditional 
        business'' has the meaning given the term ``nontraditional 
        defense contractor'' in section 3014 of title 10, United States 
        Code.
            (4) Small business.--The term ``small business'' has the 
        meaning given the term ``small business concern'' in section 3 
        of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632).

SEC. 832. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE NOTIFICATION OF CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS.

    (a) In General.--The parties to a covered transaction required to 
file the notification and provide supplementary information to the 
Department of Justice or the Federal Trade Commission under section 7A 
of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. 18a) shall concurrently provide such 
information to the Department of Defense during the waiting period 
under section 7A of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. 18a).
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Covered transaction.--The term ``covered transaction'' 
        means an actual or proposed merger, acquisition, joint venture, 
        strategic alliance, or investment--
                    (A) for which the parties are required to file a 
                notification under section 7A of the Clayton Act (15 
                U.S.C. 18a); and
                    (B) any party to which is, owns, or controls a 
                major defense supplier.
            (2) Major defense supplier.--The term ``major defense 
        supplier'' means--
                    (A) a current prime contractor of a major defense 
                acquisition program as defined in chapter 201 of title 
                10, United States Code;
                    (B) a current prime contractor of a middle tier 
                acquisition as defined pursuant to section 804 of the 
                National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
                (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 882);
                    (C) a current prime contractor of a software 
                acquisition program described under section 800 of the 
                National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 
                (Public Law 116-92; 133 Stat. 1478);
                    (D) a current prime contractor of a defense 
                business system as defined in section 2222 of title 10, 
                United States Code; or
                    (E) a current prime contractor of a service 
                contract with the Department of Defense, as defined in 
                part 237 of the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation 
                Supplement, above the simplified acquisition threshold.

SEC. 833. ANALYSES OF CERTAIN ACTIVITIES FOR ACTION TO ADDRESS SOURCING 
              AND INDUSTRIAL CAPACITY.

    (a) Analysis Required.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through 
        the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment 
        and other appropriate officials, shall review the items under 
        subsection (c) to determine and develop appropriate actions, 
        consistent with the policies, programs, and activities required 
        under subpart I of part V of subtitle A of title 10, United 
        States Code, chapter 83 of title 41, United States Code, and 
        the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4501 et seq.), 
        including--
                    (A) restricting procurement, with appropriate 
                waivers for cost, emergency requirements, and non-
                availability of suppliers, including restricting 
                procurement to--
                            (i) suppliers in the United States;
                            (ii) suppliers in the national technology 
                        and industrial base (as defined in section 4801 
                        of title 10, United States Code);
                            (iii) suppliers in other allied nations; or
                            (iv) other suppliers;
                    (B) increasing investment through use of research 
                and development or procurement activities and 
                acquisition authorities to--
                            (i) expand production capacity;
                            (ii) diversify sources of supply; or
                            (iii) promote alternative approaches for 
                        addressing military requirements;
                    (C) prohibiting procurement from selected sources 
                or nations;
                    (D) taking a combination of actions described under 
                subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C); or
                    (E) taking no action.
            (2) Considerations.--The analyses conducted pursuant to 
        paragraph (1) shall consider national security, economic, and 
        treaty implications, as well as impacts on current and 
        potential suppliers of goods and services.
    (b) Reporting on Analyses, Recommendations, and Actions.--
            (1) Briefing required.--Not later than January 15, 2025, 
        the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
        defense committees, in writing--
                    (A) a summary of the findings of the analyses 
                undertaken for each item pursuant to subsection (a);
                    (B) relevant recommendations resulting from the 
                analyses; and
                    (C) descriptions of specific activities undertaken 
                as a result of the analyses, including schedule and 
                resources allocated for any planned actions.
            (2) Reporting.--The Secretary of Defense shall include the 
        analyses conducted under subsection (a), and any relevant 
        recommendations and descriptions of activities resulting from 
        such analyses, as appropriate, in each of the following during 
        the 2025 calendar year:
                    (A) The annual report or quarterly briefings to 
                Congress required under section 4814 of title 10, 
                United States Code.
                    (B) The annual report on unfunded priorities of the 
                national technology and industrial base required under 
                section 4815 of such title.
                    (C) Department of Defense technology and industrial 
                base policy guidance prescribed under section 4811(c) 
                of such title.
                    (D) Activities to modernize acquisition processes 
                to ensure the integrity of the industrial base pursuant 
                to section 4819 of such title.
                    (E) Defense memoranda of understanding and related 
                agreements considered in accordance with section 4851 
                of such title.
                    (F) Industrial base or acquisition policy changes.
                    (G) Legislative proposals for changes to relevant 
                statutes which the Department shall consider, develop, 
                and submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
                Senate and the House of Representatives not less 
                frequently than once per fiscal year.
                    (H) Other actions as the Secretary of Defense 
                determines appropriate.
    (c) List of Goods and Services for Analyses, Recommendations, and 
Actions.--The items described in this subsection are the following:
            (1) Traveling Wave Tubes and Traveling Wave Tube 
        Amplifiers.

SEC. 834. PILOT PROGRAM ON CAPITAL ASSISTANCE TO SUPPORT DEFENSE 
              INVESTMENT IN THE INDUSTRIAL BASE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may carry out a pilot 
program under this section to use capital assistance to support the 
duties and elements of sections 901 and 907.
    (b) Eligibility and Application Process.--
            (1) In general.--An eligible entity seeking capital 
        assistance for an eligible investment under this section shall 
        submit to the Secretary of Defense an application at such time, 
        in such manner, and containing such information as the 
        Secretary may require.
            (2) Selection of investments.--The Secretary shall 
        establish criteria for selecting among eligible investments for 
        which applications are submitted under subsection (c)(2). The 
        criteria shall include--
                    (A) the extent to which an investment supports the 
                national security of the United States;
                    (B) the likelihood that capital assistance provided 
                for an investment would enable the investment to 
                proceed sooner than the investment would otherwise be 
                able to proceed; and
                    (C) the creditworthiness of an investment.
    (c) Capital Assistance.--
            (1) Loans and loan guarantees.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary may provide loans or 
                loan guarantees to finance or refinance the costs of an 
                eligible investment selected pursuant to subsection 
                (b)(2).
                    (B) Administration of loans.--
                            (i) Interest rate.--
                                    (I) In general.--Except as provided 
                                under subclause (II), the interest rate 
                                on a loan provided under subparagraph 
                                (A) shall be not less than the yield on 
                                marketable United States Treasury 
                                securities of a similar maturity to the 
                                maturity of the loan on the date of 
                                execution of the loan agreement.
                                    (II) Exception.--The Secretary may 
                                waive the requirement under subclause 
                                (I) with respect to an investment if 
                                the investment is determined by the 
                                Secretary of Defense to be vital to the 
                                national security of the United States.
                                    (III) Criteria.--The Secretary 
                                shall establish separate and distinct 
                                criteria for interest rates for loan 
                                guarantees with private sector lending 
                                institutions.
                            (ii) Final maturity date.--The final 
                        maturity date of a loan provided under 
                        subparagraph (A) shall be not later than 50 
                        years after the date of substantial completion 
                        of the investment for which the loan was 
                        provided.
                            (iii) Prepayment.--A loan provided under 
                        subparagraph (A) may be paid earlier than is 
                        provided for under the loan agreement without a 
                        penalty.
                            (iv) Nonsubordination.--
                                    (I) In general.--A loan provided 
                                under subparagraph (A) shall not be 
                                subordinated to the claims of any 
                                holder of investment obligations in the 
                                event of bankruptcy, insolvency, or 
                                liquidation of the obligor.
                                    (II) Exception.--The Secretary may 
                                waive the requirement under subclause 
                                (I) with respect to the investment in 
                                order to mitigate risks to loan 
                                repayment.
                            (v) Sale of loans.--The Secretary may sell 
                        to another entity or reoffer into the capital 
                        markets a loan provided under subparagraph (A) 
                        if the Secretary determines that the sale or 
                        reoffering can be made on favorable terms.
                            (vi) Loan guarantees.--Any loan guarantee 
                        provided under subparagraph (A) shall specify 
                        the percentage of the principal amount 
                        guaranteed. If the Secretary determines that 
                        the holder of a loan guaranteed by the 
                        Department of Defense defaults on the loan, the 
                        Secretary shall pay the holder as specified in 
                        the loan guarantee agreement.
                            (vii) Investment-grade rating.--The 
                        Secretary shall establish a credit rating 
                        system to ensure a reasonable reassurance of 
                        repayment. The system may include use of 
                        existing credit rating agencies where 
                        appropriate.
                            (viii) Terms and conditions.--Loans and 
                        loan guarantees provided under subparagraph (A) 
                        shall be subject to such other terms and 
                        conditions and contain such other covenants, 
                        representations, warranties, and requirements 
                        (including requirements for audits) as the 
                        Secretary determines appropriate.
                            (ix) Applicability of federal credit reform 
                        act of 1990.--Loans and loan guarantees 
                        provided under subparagraph (A) shall be 
                        subject to the requirements of the Federal 
                        Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661 et 
                        seq.).
            (2) Equity investments.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary may, as a minority 
                investor, support an eligible investment selected 
                pursuant to subsection (b)(2) with funds or use other 
                mechanisms for the purpose of purchasing, and may make 
                and fund commitments to purchase, invest in, make 
                pledges in respect of, or otherwise acquire, equity or 
                quasi-equity securities (such as warrants), or shares 
                or financial interests of the eligible entity receiving 
                support for the eligible investment, including as a 
                limited partner or other investor in investment funds, 
                upon such terms and conditions as the Secretary may 
                determine.
                    (B) Sales and liquidation of position.--The 
                Secretary shall seek to sell and liquidate any support 
                for an investment provided under subparagraph (A) as 
                soon as commercially feasible, commensurate with other 
                similar investors in the investment and taking into 
                consideration the national security interests of the 
                United States.
            (3) Technical assistance.--Subjection to Appropriations 
        acts, the Secretary may provide technical assistance with 
        respect to developing and financing investments to eligible 
        entities seeking capital assistance for eligible investments 
        and eligible entities receiving capital assistance under this 
        section.
            (4) Terms and conditions.--
                    (A) Amount of capital assistance.--The Secretary 
                shall provide to an eligible investment selected 
                pursuant to subsection (b)(2) the amount of assistance 
                necessary to carry out the investment.
                    (B) Use of united states dollars.--All financial 
                transactions conducted under this section shall be 
                conducted in United States dollars.
    (d) Establishment of Accounts.--
            (1) Credit program account.--
                    (A) Establishment.--There is established in the 
                Treasury of the United States a Department of Defense 
                Credit Program Account to execute loans and loan 
                guarantees in accordance with section 502 of the 
                Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661a).
                    (B) Funding.--The Credit Program Account shall 
                consist of amounts appropriated pursuant to the 
                authorization of appropriations and fees collected 
                pursuant to subparagraph (C).
                    (C) Fee authority.--The Secretary may charge and 
                collect fees for providing capital assistance in 
                amounts to be determined by the Secretary. The 
                Secretary shall establish the amount of such fees in 
                regulations at an amount sufficient to cover but not 
                exceed the administrative costs to the Office of 
                providing capital assistance.
            (2) Equity account.--
                    (A) Establishment.--There is established in the 
                Treasury of the United States a Department of Defense 
                Strategic Capital Equity Account.
                    (B) Funding.--The Strategic Capital Equity Account 
                shall consist of all amounts appropriated pursuant to 
                the authorization of appropriations.
            (3) Use of funds.--Subject to appropriations Acts, the 
        Secretary is authorized to pay, from the Department of Defense 
        Credit Program Account or the Department of Defense Strategic 
        Capital Equity Account--
                    (A) the cost, as defined in section 502 of the 
                Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661a), of 
                loans and loan guarantees and other capital assistance;
                    (B) administrative expenses associated with 
                activities under this section;
                    (C) project-specific transaction costs;
                    (D) the cost of providing support authorized by 
                this section; and
                    (E) the costs of equity investments.
    (e) Regulations.--The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe such 
regulations as are necessary to carry out this section. The Secretary 
may not exercise the authorities available under this section until 
such time as these regulations have been issued and adopted by the 
Department.
    (f) Annual Report.--Not later than the first Monday in February of 
a fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees an annual report describing activities 
carried out pursuant to this section in the preceding fiscal year and 
the goals of the Department of Defense in accordance with this section 
for the next fiscal year.
    (g) Notification Requirement.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
notify the congressional defense committees not later than 30 days 
after a use of loans, loan guarantees, equity investments, insurance, 
or reinsurance under this section.
    (h) Sunset.--The authorities provided under this section shall 
expire on October 1, 2028.
    (i) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Capital assistance.--The term ``capital assistance'' 
        means loans, loan guarantees, equity investments, insurance and 
        reinsurance, or technical assistance provided under subsection 
        (c).
            (2) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means--
                    (A) an individual;
                    (B) a corporation, including a limited liability 
                corporation;
                    (C) a partnership, including a public-private, 
                limited, or general partnership;
                    (D) a joint venture, including a strategic 
                alliance;
                    (E) a trust;
                    (F) a State of the United States, including a 
                political subdivision or any other instrumentality of a 
                State;
                    (G) a Tribal government or consortium of Tribal 
                governments;
                    (H) any other governmental entity or public agency 
                in the United States, including a special purpose 
                district or public authority, including a port 
                authority; or
                    (I) a multi-State or multi-jurisdictional group of 
                public entities within the United States.
            (3) Eligible investment.--The term ``eligible investment'' 
        means an investment that facilitates the efforts of the 
        Office--
                    (A) to identify, accelerate, and sustain the 
                establishment, research, development, construction, 
                procurement, leasing, consolidation, alteration, 
                improvement, or repair of tangible and intangible 
                assets vital to national security; or
                    (B) to protect vital tangible and intangible assets 
                from theft, acquisition, and transfer by adversaries of 
                the United States.
            (4) Obligor.--The term ``obligor'' means a party that is 
        primarily liable for payment of the principal of or interest on 
        a loan.

SEC. 835. REQUIREMENT TO BUY CERTAIN SATELLITE COMPONENTS FROM NATIONAL 
              TECHNOLOGY AND INDUSTRIAL BASE.

    (a) In General.--Section 4864(a) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(6) Traveling-wave tube and traveling wave tube 
        amplifiers.--A traveling-wave tube and traveling wave tube 
        amplifier, that meets established technical and reliability 
        requirements, used in a satellite weighing more than 400 pounds 
        whose principle purpose is to support the national security, 
        defense, or intelligence needs of the United States 
        Government.''.
    (b) Exception.--Paragraph (6) of section 4864(a) of title 10, 
United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall not apply with 
respect to programs that received Milestone A approval (as defined in 
section 2431a of such title) before October 1, 2022.
    (c) Clarification of Delegation Authority.--Subject to subsection 
(i) of section 4864 of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of 
Defense may delegate to a service acquisition executive the authority 
to make a waiver under subsection (d) of such section with respect to 
the limitation under subsection (a)(6) of such section, as added by 
subsection (a) of this section.

SEC. 836. SENSE OF CONGRESS RELATING TO RUBBER SUPPLY.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the Department of Defense should take all appropriate 
        action to lessen the dependence of the Armed Forces on 
        adversarial nations for the procurement of strategic and 
        critical materials, and that one such material in short supply 
        according to the most recent report from Defense Logistics 
        Agency Strategic Material is natural rubber, undermining our 
        national security and jeopardizing the military's ability to 
        rely on a stable source of natural rubber for tire 
        manufacturing and production of other goods; and
            (2) the Secretary of Defense should take all appropriate 
        action, pursuant with the authority provided by the Strategic 
        and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 98a et seq.) 
        to engage in activities that may include stockpiling, but shall 
        also include research and development aspects for increasing 
        the domestic supply of natural rubber.

                   Subtitle D--Small Business Matters

SEC. 841. AMENDMENTS TO DEFENSE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT RAPID 
              INNOVATION PROGRAM.

    Section 4061 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by inserting ``to enable and assist 
                        small businesses'' after ``merit-based 
                        program'';
                            (ii) by striking ``fielding of 
                        technologies'' and inserting 
                        ``commercialization of various technologies, 
                        including critical technologies''; and
                            (iii) by inserting ``capabilities developed 
                        through competitively awarded prototype 
                        agreements'' after ``defense laboratories,''; 
                        and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``support full-
                scale integration,'' after ``evaluation outcomes,'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``primarily 
                major defense acquisition programs, but also other'' 
                after ``candidate proposals in support of''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``by each 
                military department'' and inserting ``by each component 
                small business office of each military department''; 
                and
            (3) in subsection (d)(2), by striking ``$3,000,000'' and 
        inserting ``$6,000,000''.

SEC. 842. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE MENTOR-PROTEGE PROGRAM.

    Section 4902(e) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by redesignating subparagraphs (A) 
        through (D) as clauses (i) through (iv), respectively;
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively;
            (3) by striking ``Before providing assistance'' and 
        inserting ``(1) Before providing assistance''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) An agreement under this subsection may be a contract, 
cooperative agreement, or a partnership intermediary agreement.''.

SEC. 843. CONSIDERATION OF THE PAST PERFORMANCE OF AFFILIATE COMPANIES 
              OF SMALL BUSINESSES.

    Not later than July 1, 2024, the Secretary of Defense shall amend 
section 215.305 of the Defense Federal Acquisition Supplement (or any 
successor regulation) to require that when small business concerns bid 
on Department of Defense contracts, the past performance evaluation and 
source selection processes shall consider, if relevant, the past 
performance information of affiliate companies of the small business 
concerns.

SEC. 844. TIMELY PAYMENTS FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SMALL BUSINESS 
              SUBCONTRACTORS.

    (a) Reduction in Time for Contractor Explanation and Past 
Performance Consideration of Unjustified Withholding of Payments to 
Department of Defense Small Business Subcontractors.--Section 
8(d)(13)(B)(i) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(13)(B)(i)) 
is amended by inserting ``, or, for a covered contract awarded by the 
Department of Defense, more than 30 days past due,'' after ``90 days 
past due''.
    (b) Clarification That Contracting Officers of the Department of 
Defense Are Authorized to Enter or Modify Past Performance Information 
Related to Unjustified Non-payment or Reduced Payment Before or After 
Contract Close-out.--Section 8(d)(13)(C) of the Small Business Act (15 
U.S.C. 637(d)(13)(C)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``A contracting officer'' and inserting the 
        following:
                            ``(i) In general.--A contracting officer''; 
                        and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(ii) Past performance information for dod 
                        contracts.--The contracting officer for a 
                        covered contract awarded by the Department of 
                        Defense may enter or modify past performance 
                        information of the prime contractor in 
                        connection with the unjustified failure to make 
                        a full or timely payment to a subcontractor 
                        before or after close-out of the covered 
                        contract.''.
    (c) Duty of Cooperation to Correct and Mitigate Unjustified Failure 
by Department of Defense Prime Contractors to Make Full or Timely 
Payments to Subcontractors.--Section 8(d)(13) of the Small Business Act 
(15 U.S.C. 637(d)(13)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as subparagraph (F);
            (2) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the following:
                    ``(E) Cooperation on dod contracts.--
                            ``(i) In general.--If a contracting officer 
                        of the Department of Defense determines, with 
                        respect to a prime contractor's past 
                        performance, that there was an unjustified 
                        failure by the prime contractor on a covered 
                        contract awarded by the Department of Defense 
                        to make a full or timely payment to a 
                        subcontractor covered by subparagraph (B) or 
                        (C), such prime contractor is required to 
                        cooperate with the contracting officer, who 
                        shall consult with the Director of Small 
                        Business Programs or Director of Small and 
                        Disadvantaged Business Utilization acting 
                        pursuant to section 15(k)(6) and other 
                        representatives of the Department of Defense, 
                        with regards to correcting and mitigating such 
                        unjustified failure to make a full or timely 
                        payment to the subcontractor.
                            ``(ii) Period.--The duty of cooperation 
                        under this subparagraph continues until the 
                        subcontractor is made whole or the contracting 
                        officer's determination is no longer effective, 
                        and regardless of performance or close-out 
                        status of the covered contract.''; and
            (3) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``subparagraph (E)'' 
        and inserting ``subparagraph (F)''.
    (d) Applicability.--The amendments made by this section shall apply 
to any covered contract (as defined in section 8(d)(13)(A) of the Small 
Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(13)(A)) that is entered into or modified 
by the Department of Defense on or after the date of enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 845. EXTENSION OF PILOT PROGRAM FOR STREAMLINED TECHNOLOGY 
              TRANSITION FROM THE SBIR AND STTR PROGRAMS OF THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    Section 1710(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91) is amended by striking ``September 
30, 2023'' and inserting ``September 30, 2028''.

SEC. 846. ANNUAL REPORTS REGARDING THE SBIR PROGRAM OF THE DEPARTMENT 
              OF DEFENSE.

    Section 279(a) of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116-283; 134 Stat. 
3507) is amended by striking ``each fiscal years 2021, 2022, and 2023'' 
and replacing with ``each fiscal year through fiscal year 2028''.

SEC. 847. MODIFICATIONS TO THE PROCUREMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Definitions.--Section 4951 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)(C), by striking ``private, nonprofit 
        organization'' and inserting ``nonprofit organization''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(5) The term `business entity' means a corporation, 
        association, partnership, limited liability company, limited 
        liability partnership, consortia, not-for-profit, or other 
        legal entity.''.
    (b) Cooperative Agreements.--Section 4954 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B);
                    (B) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``Under''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
    ``(2) The Secretary shall have the ability to waive or modify the 
percentages specified in paragraph (1), on a case-by-case basis, if the 
Secretary determines that it would be in the best interest of the 
program.'';
            (2) by striking subsection (c) and redesignating 
        subsections (d), (e), and (f) as subsections (e), (f), and (h); 
        and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (f), as redesignated by 
        paragraph (2), the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Waiver of Government Cost Share Restriction.--If the 
Secretary of Defense determines it to be in the best interests of the 
Federal Government, the Secretary may waive the restrictions on the 
percentage of eligible costs covered by the program under section (b). 
The Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
written justification for such determination.''.
    (c) Authority to Provide Certain Types of Technical Assistance.--
Section 4958(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
            ``(3) under clause 252.204-7012 of the Defense Acquisition 
        Regulation Supplement, or any successor regulation, and on 
        compliance with those requirements (and any successor 
        requirements); and
            ``(4) under section 847 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92; 133 
        Stat. 1505), and on compliance with those requirements (and any 
        such successor requirements).''.

SEC. 848. EXTENSION OF PILOT PROGRAM TO INCENTIVIZE CONTRACTING WITH 
              EMPLOYEE-OWNED BUSINESSES.

    Section 874 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2022 (Public Law 117-81; 10 U.S.C. 3204 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and prescribe 
                regulations'' after ``establish a pilot program''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``A qualified'' 
                and inserting ``Each contract held by a qualified'';
            (2) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ``expended on 
        subcontracts, subject to such necessary and reasonable 
        waivers'' and inserting the following: ``expended on 
        subcontracts, except--
                    ``(A) to the extent subcontracted amounts exceeding 
                50 percent are subcontracted to other qualified 
                businesses wholly-owned through an Employee Stock 
                Ownership Plan;
                    ``(B) in the case of contracts for products, to the 
                extent subcontracted amounts exceeding 50 percent are 
                for materials not available from another qualified 
                business wholly-owned through an Employee Stock 
                Ownership Plan; or
                    ``(C) pursuant to such necessary and reasonable 
                waivers''; and
            (3) in subsection (e), by striking ``five years after'' and 
        inserting ``eight years after''.

SEC. 849. ELIMINATING SELF-CERTIFICATION FOR SERVICE-DISABLED VETERAN-
              OWNED SMALL BUSINESSES.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the Small Business Administration.
            (2) Small business concern; small business concerns owned 
        and controlled by service-disabled veterans.--The terms ``small 
        business concern'' and ``small business concerns owned and 
        controlled by service-disabled veterans'' have the meanings 
        given those terms in section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 
        U.S.C. 632).
    (b) Eliminating Self-Certification in Prime Contracting and 
Subcontracting for SDVOSBs.--
            (1) In general.--Each prime contract award and subcontract 
        award that is counted for the purpose of meeting the goals for 
        participation by small business concerns owned and controlled 
        by service-disabled veterans in procurement contracts for 
        Federal agencies, as established in section 15(g)(2) of the 
        Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(g)(2)), shall be entered into 
        with small business concerns certified by the Administrator as 
        small business concerns owned and controlled by service-
        disabled veterans under section 36 of such Act (15 U.S.C. 
        657f).
            (2) Effective date.--Paragraph (1) shall take effect on 
        October 1 of the fiscal year beginning after the Administrator 
        promulgates the regulations required under subsection (d).
    (c) Phased Approach to Eliminating Self-Certification for 
SDVOSBs.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any small 
business concern that self-certified as a small business concern owned 
and controlled by service-disabled veterans may--
            (1) if the small business concern files a certification 
        application with the Administrator before the end of the 1-year 
        period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act, maintain 
        such self-certification until the Administrator makes a 
        determination with respect to such certification; and
            (2) if the small business concern does not file a 
        certification application before the end of the 1-year period 
        beginning on the date of enactment of this Act, lose, at the 
        end of such 1-year period, any self-certification of the small 
        business concern as a small business concern owned and 
        controlled by service-disabled veterans.
    (d) Rulemaking.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall promulgate regulations 
to carry out this section.

SEC. 850. PAYMENT OF SUBCONTRACTORS.

    Section 8(d)(13) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(13)) 
is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (B)(i), by striking ``90 days'' and 
        inserting ``30 days'';
            (2) in subparagraph (C)--
                    (A) by striking ``contractor shall'' and inserting 
                ``contractor--
                            ``(i) shall'';
                    (B) in clause (i), as so designated, by striking 
                the period at the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(i) may enter or modify past performance 
                        information of the prime contractor in 
                        connection with the unjustified failure to make 
                        a full or timely payment to a subcontractor 
                        subject to this paragraph before or after 
                        close-out of the covered contract.''.
            (3) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``subparagraph (E)'' 
        and inserting ``subparagraph (F)'';
            (4) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as subparagraph (F); 
        and
            (5) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the following'':
                    ``(E) Cooperation.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Once a contracting 
                        officer determines, with respect to the past 
                        performance of a prime contractor, that there 
                        was an unjustified failure by the prime 
                        contractor on a covered contract to make a full 
                        or timely payment to a subcontractor covered by 
                        subparagraph (B) or (C), the prime contractor 
                        is required to cooperate with the contracting 
                        officer, who shall consult with the Director of 
                        Small Business Programs or the Director of 
                        Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization 
                        acting pursuant to section 15(k)(6) and other 
                        representatives of the Government, regarding 
                        correcting and mitigating the unjustified 
                        failure to make a full or timely payment to a 
                        subcontractor.
                            ``(ii) Duration.--The duty of cooperation 
                        under this subparagraph for a prime contractor 
                        described in clause (i) continues until the 
                        subcontractor is made whole or the 
                        determination of the contracting officer 
                        determination is no longer effective, and 
                        regardless of performance or close-out status 
                        of the covered contract.''.

SEC. 851. INCREASE IN GOVERNMENTWIDE GOAL FOR PARTICIPATION IN FEDERAL 
              CONTRACTS BY SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS OWNED AND CONTROLLED 
              BY SERVICE-DISABLED VETERANS.

    Section 15(g)(1)(A)(ii) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
644(g)(1)(A)(ii)) is amended by striking ``3 percent'' and inserting 
``5 percent''.

SEC. 852. AMENDMENTS TO CONTRACTING AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN SMALL 
              BUSINESS CONCERNS.

    (a) Socially and Economically Disadvantaged Small Business 
Concerns.--Section 8(a)(1)(D)(i)(II) of the Small Business Act (15 
U.S.C. 637(a)(1)(D)(i)(II)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(or $10,000,000, in the case of a 
        Department of Defense contract, as adjusted for inflation by 
        the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council under section 1.109 
        of the Federal Acquisition Regulation)'' after ``$7,000,000''; 
        and
            (2) by inserting ``(or $8,000,000, in the case of a 
        Department of Defense contract, as adjusted for inflation by 
        the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council under section 1.109 
        of the Federal Acquisition Regulation)'' after ``$3,000,000''.
    (b) Certain Small Business Concerns Owned and Controlled by 
Women.--Section 8(m) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.637(m)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (7)(B)--
                    (A) in clause (i), by inserting ``(or $10,000,000, 
                in the case of a Department of Defense contract, as 
                adjusted for inflation by the Federal Acquisition 
                Regulatory Council under section 1.109 of the Federal 
                Acquisition Regulation)'' after ``$7,000,000''; and
                    (B) in clause (ii), by inserting ``(or $8,000,000, 
                in the case of a Department of Defense contract, as 
                adjusted for inflation by the Federal Acquisition 
                Regulatory Council under section 1.109 of the Federal 
                Acquisition Regulation)'' after ``$4,000,000''; and
            (2) in paragraph (8)(B)--
                    (A) in clause (i), by inserting ``(or $10,000,000, 
                in the case of a Department of Defense contract, as 
                adjusted for inflation by the Federal Acquisition 
                Regulatory Council under section 1.109 of the Federal 
                Acquisition Regulation)'' after ``$7,000,000''; and
                    (B) in clause (ii), by inserting ``(or $8,000,000, 
                in the case of a Department of Defense contract, as 
                adjusted for inflation by the Federal Acquisition 
                Regulatory Council under section 1.109 of the Federal 
                Acquisition Regulation)'' after ``$4,000,000''.
    (c) Qualified Hubzone Small Business Concerns.--Section 
31(c)(2)(A)(ii) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 657a(c)(2)(A)(ii)) 
is amended--
            (1) in subclause (I), by inserting ``(or $10,000,000, in 
        the case of a Department of Defense contract, as adjusted for 
        inflation by the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council under 
        section 1.109 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation)'' after 
        ``$7,000,000''; and
            (2) in subclause (II), by inserting ``(or $8,000,000, in 
        the case of a Department of Defense contract, as adjusted for 
        inflation by the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council under 
        section 1.109 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation)'' after 
        ``$3,000,000''.
    (d) Small Business Concerns Owned and Controlled by Service-
disabled Veterans.--Section 36(c)(2) of the Small Business Act (15 
U.S.C. 657f(c)(2)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``(or $10,000,000, in 
        the case of a Department of Defense contract, as adjusted for 
        inflation by the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council under 
        section 1.109 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation)'' after 
        ``$7,000,000''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``(or $8,000,000, in 
        the case of a Department of Defense contract, as adjusted for 
        inflation by the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council under 
        section 1.109 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation)'' after 
        ``$3,000,000''.
    (e) Certain Veteran-owned Concerns.--Section 8127(c) of title 38, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``$5,000,000'' and inserting 
``the dollar thresholds under section 36(c)(2) of the Small Business 
Act (15 U.S.C. 657f(c)(2))''.

                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

SEC. 861. LIMITATION ON THE AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS PENDING A PLAN FOR 
              IMPLEMENTING THE REPLACEMENT FOR THE SELECTED ACQUISITION 
              REPORTING SYSTEM.

    Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for 
Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide, for travel for the Office of 
the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, not 
more than 85 percent may be obligated or expended until the Secretary 
of Defense submits to the congressional defense committees a plan for 
implementing the replacement for the Selected Acquisition Reporting 
system as required by section 809 of the James M. Inhofe National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263), 
including--
            (1) a timeline and process for implementing the 
        requirements of such section 809;
            (2) a timeline and process for implementing quarterly 
        reporting versus annually for the replacement system, including 
        identification of policy, procedural, or technical challenges 
        to implementing that reporting periodicity;
            (3) a timeline and process for providing access to the 
        replacement reporting system to congressional staff; and
            (4) a timeline and process for providing access to the 
        replacement reporting system to the Government Accountability 
        Office, the public, and other relevant stakeholders.

SEC. 862. EXTENSION OF PILOT PROGRAM FOR DISTRIBUTION SUPPORT AND 
              SERVICES FOR WEAPONS SYSTEMS CONTRACTORS.

    Section 883 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 10 U.S.C. 4292 note prec.) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``seven-year pilot 
        program'' and inserting ``eight-year pilot program''; and
            (2) in subsection (g), by striking ``seven years'' and 
        inserting ``eight years''.

SEC. 863. MODIFICATION OF EFFECTIVE DATE FOR EXPANSION ON THE 
              PROHIBITION ON ACQUIRING CERTAIN METAL PRODUCTS.

    Section 844(b) of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116-283; 134 Stat. 
3766) is amended by striking ``5 years'' and inserting ``6 years''.

SEC. 864. FOREIGN SOURCES OF SPECIALTY METALS.

    Section 4863(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by redesignating subparagraphs (A) 
        and (B) as clauses (i) and (ii), respectively;
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively;
            (3) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``Subsection (a)(1)''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) Any specialty metal procured as mill product or incorporated 
into a component other than an end item pursuant to this subsection 
shall be melted or produced--
            ``(A) in the United States;
            ``(B) in the country from which the mill product or 
        component is procured; or
            ``(C) in another country covered under paragraph 
        (1)(A)(ii).''.

SEC. 865. UNIVERSITY AFFILIATED RESEARCH CENTER FOR CRITICAL MINERALS.

    (a) Plan to Establish a University Affiliated Research Center for 
Critical Minerals.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
        with the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
        Engineering, shall develop a plan to establish a new University 
        Affiliated Research Center (UARC), or to expand a current 
        relevant UARC or consortia of universities, for the purposes of 
        contributing to the capacity of the Department to conduct 
        research, development, engineering or workforce expansion 
        related to critical minerals for national security needs. The 
        plan should focus on institutional capacity at a mining school 
        or schools with expertise in engineering, applied research, 
        commercial and workforce development activities related to 
        critical minerals.
            (2) Elements.--The plan required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) An assessment of the engineering, applied 
                research, commercialization, and workforce development 
                capabilities relating to critical minerals of mining 
                schools, including an assessment of the workforce and 
                physical research infrastructure of such schools.
                    (B) An assessment of the ability of mining 
                schools--
                            (i) to participate in defense-related 
                        engineering, applied research, 
                        commercialization, and workforce development 
                        activities relating to critical minerals;
                            (ii) to effectively compete for defense-
                        related engineering, applied research, 
                        commercialization, and workforce development 
                        contracts and grants; and
                            (iii) to support the mission of the Under 
                        Secretary to extend the capabilities of current 
                        war fighting systems, develop breakthrough 
                        capabilities, hedge against an uncertain future 
                        through a set of scientific and engineering 
                        options, and counter strategic surprise.
                    (C) An assessment of the activities and investments 
                necessary--
                            (i) to augment facilities or educational 
                        programming at mining schools or a consortium 
                        of mining schools--
                                    (I) to support the mission of the 
                                Under Secretary;
                                    (II) to access, secure, and conduct 
                                research relating to sensitive or 
                                classified information; and
                                    (III) to respond quickly to 
                                emerging engineering, applied research, 
                                commercialization, and workforce needs 
                                relating to critical minerals.
                            (ii) to increase the participation of 
                        mining schools in defense-related engineering, 
                        applied research, commercialization, and 
                        workforce development activities; and
                            (iii) to increase the ability of mining 
                        schools to effectively compete for defense-
                        related engineering, applied research, 
                        commercialization, and workforce development 
                        contracts and grants.
                    (D) Recommendations identifying actions that may be 
                taken by the Secretary, the Under Secretary, Congress, 
                mining schools, and other organizations to increase the 
                participation of mining schools in defense-related 
                engineering, applied research, commercialization, and 
                workforce development activities, contracts, and 
                grants.
                    (E) The specific goals, incentives, and metrics 
                developed by the Secretary under subparagraph (D) to 
                increase and measure the capacity of mining schools to 
                address the engineering, applied research, 
                commercialization, and workforce development needs of 
                the Department of Defense.
            (3) Consultations.--In developing the plan required by 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary and the Under Secretary shall 
        consult with such other public and private sector organizations 
        as the Secretary and the Under Secretary determine appropriate.
            (4) Report required.--Not later than one year after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) submit to the congressional defense committees 
                a report that includes the plan developed under 
                paragraph (1); and
                    (B) make the plan available on a publicly 
                accessible website of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Activities to Support the Engineering, Applied Research, 
Commercialization, and Workforce Development Capacity of Mining 
Schools.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to the availability of 
        appropriations, the Under Secretary may establish a program to 
        award contracts, grants, or other agreements on a competitive 
        basis, and to perform other appropriate activities, for the 
        purposes described in paragraph (2).
            (2) Purposes.--The purposes described in this paragraph are 
        the following:
                    (A) Developing the capability, including workforce 
                and research infrastructure, for mining schools to more 
                effectively compete for Federal engineering, applied 
                research, commercialization, and workforce development 
                funding opportunities.
                    (B) Improving the capability of mining schools to 
                recruit and retain research faculty, and to participate 
                in appropriate personnel exchange programs and 
                educational and career development activities.
                    (C) Any other purposes the Under Secretary 
                determines appropriate for enhancing the defense-
                related engineering, applied research, 
                commercialization, and development capabilities of 
                mining schools.
    (c) Increasing Partnerships for Mining Schools With National 
Security Research and Engineering Organizations.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 305 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        section:
``Sec. 4145. Research and educational programs and activities: critical 
              minerals
    ``(a) Program Established.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through 
        the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering and 
        the Secretary of each military department, shall carry out a 
        program to provide assistance to covered educational 
        institutions to assist the Department of Defense in defense-
        related critical minerals engineering, applied research, 
        commercialization, and workforce development activities.
            ``(2) Limitation on delegation.--The Secretary of Defense 
        may not delegate or transfer to an individual outside the 
        Office of the Secretary of Defense the authority regarding the 
        programming or budgeting of the program established by this 
        section that is carried out by the Under Secretary of Defense 
        for Research and Engineering.
    ``(b) Program Objective.--The objective of the program established 
by subsection (a)(1) is to enhance defense-related critical minerals 
research and education at covered educational institutions. Such 
objective shall be accomplished through initiatives designed to--
            ``(1) enhance the critical minerals research and 
        educational capabilities of such institutions in areas of 
        importance to national defense, as determined by the Secretary;
            ``(2) encourage the participation of such institutions in 
        the research, development, testing, and evaluation programs and 
        activities of the Department of Defense relating to critical 
        minerals;
            ``(3) increase the number of graduates from such 
        institutions engaged in critical minerals-related disciplines 
        important to the national security functions of the Department 
        of Defense, as determined by the Secretary; and
            ``(4) encourage research and educational collaborations 
        between such institutions and other institutions of higher 
        education, Government defense organizations, and the defense 
        industry relating to critical minerals.
    ``(c) Assistance Provided.--Under the program established under 
subsection (a)(1), the Secretary of Defense may provide covered 
educational institutions with funding or technical assistance, 
including any of the following:
            ``(1) Support for research, development, testing, 
        evaluation, or educational enhancements in areas important to 
        national defense through the competitive awarding of grants, 
        cooperative agreements, contracts, scholarships, fellowships, 
        or the acquisition of research equipment or instrumentation.
            ``(2) Support to assist in the attraction and retention of 
        faculty in scientific disciplines important to the national 
        security functions of the Department of Defense.
            ``(3) Establishing partnerships between such institutions 
        and defense laboratories, Government defense organizations, the 
        defense industry, and other institutions of higher education in 
        research, development, testing, and evaluation in areas 
        important to the national security functions of the Department 
        of Defense.
            ``(4) Other such non-monetary assistance as the Secretary 
        finds appropriate to enhance defense-related research, 
        development, testing, and evaluation activities at such 
        institutions.
    ``(d) Incentives.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may develop 
        incentives to encourage critical minerals-related research and 
        educational collaborations between covered educational 
        institutions and other institutions of higher education.
            ``(2) Goals.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish 
        goals and incentives to encourage Federally funded research and 
        development centers, science and technology reinvention 
        laboratories, and University Affiliated Research Centers funded 
        by the Department of Defense--
                    ``(A) to assess the capacity of covered educational 
                institutions to address the critical minerals research 
                and development needs of the Department through 
                partnerships and collaborations; and
                    ``(B) if appropriate, to enter into partnerships 
                and collaborations with such institutions.
    ``(e) Criteria for Funding.--The Secretary of Defense may establish 
procedures under which the Secretary may limit funding under this 
section to institutions that have not otherwise received a significant 
amount of funding from the Department of Defense for research, 
development, testing, and evaluation programs supporting the national 
security functions of the Department.
    ``(f) Definition of Covered Educational Institution.--
            ``(1) In general.--In this section, the term `covered 
        educational institution' means--
                    ``(A) a mining, metallurgical, geological, or 
                mineral engineering program--
                            ``(i) accredited by the Accreditation Board 
                        for Engineering and Technology, Inc.; and
                            ``(ii) located at an institution of higher 
                        education; or
                    ``(B) an institution of higher learning or 
                community college with a geology or engineering program 
                or department that has experience in mining research or 
                work with the mining industry.
            ``(2) Institution of higher education.--For purposes of 
        paragraph (1), the term `institution of higher education' has 
        the meaning given that term in section 101 of the Higher 
        Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001).''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 305 of such title is amended by adding at 
        the end the following new item:

``4145. Research and educational programs and activities: critical 
                            minerals.''.
    (d) Mining School Defined.--
            (1) In general.--In this section, the term ``mining 
        school'' means--
                    (A) a mining, metallurgical, geological, or mineral 
                engineering program--
                            (i) accredited by the Accreditation Board 
                        for Engineering and Technology, Inc.; and
                            (ii) located at an institution of higher 
                        education; or
                    (B) an institution of higher learning or community 
                college with a geology or engineering program or 
                department that has experience in mining research or 
                work with the mining industry.
            (2) Institution of higher education.--For purposes of 
        paragraph (1), the term ``institution of higher education'' has 
        the meaning given that term in section 101 of the Higher 
        Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001).

SEC. 866. ENHANCED DOMESTIC CONTENT REQUIREMENT FOR NAVY SHIPBUILDING 
              PROGRAMS.

    (a) Enhanced Domestic Content Requirement.--
            (1) Contracting requirements.--Except as provided in 
        paragraph (2), for purposes of chapter 83 of title 41, United 
        States Code, manufactured articles, materials, or supplies 
        procured as part of a Navy shipbuilding program are 
        manufactured substantially all from articles, materials, or 
        supplies mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States 
        if the cost of such component articles, materials, or 
        supplies--
                    (A) supplied during the period beginning January 1, 
                2026, and ending December 31, 2027, exceeds 65 percent 
                of the cost of the manufactured articles, materials, or 
                supplies;
                    (B) supplied during the period beginning January 1, 
                2028, and ending December 31, 2032, exceeds 75 percent 
                of the cost of the manufactured articles, materials, or 
                supplies; and
                    (C) supplied on or after January 1, 2033, equals 
                100 percent of the cost of the manufactured articles, 
                materials, or supplies.
            (2) Applicability to research, development, test, and 
        evaluation activities.--Contracts related to shipbuilding 
        programs entered into under paragraph (1) to carry out 
        research, development, test, and evaluation activities shall 
        require that these activities and the components specified 
        during these activities must meet the domestic content 
        requirements delineated under paragraph (1).
            (3) Exclusion for certain manufactured articles.--Paragraph 
        (1) shall not apply to manufactured articles that consist 
        wholly or predominantly of iron, steel, or a combination of 
        iron and steel.
            (4) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense may request a waiver 
        from the requirements under paragraph (1) in order to expand 
        sourcing to members of the national technical industrial base 
        (as that term is defined in section 4801 of title 10, United 
        States Code). Any such waiver shall be subject to the approval 
        of the Director of the Made in America Office and may only be 
        requested if it is determined that any of the following apply:
                    (A) Application of the limitation would increase 
                the cost of the overall acquisition by more than 25 
                percent or cause unreasonable delays to be incurred.
                    (B) Satisfactory quality items manufactured by a 
                domestic entity are not available or domestic 
                production of such items cannot be initiated without 
                significantly delaying the project for which the item 
                is to be acquired.
                    (C) It is inconsistent with the public interest.
            (5) Rulemaking.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
        concurrence with the Director of the Made in America Office, 
        shall issue rules to determine the treatment of the lowest 
        price offered for a foreign end product for which 55 percent or 
        more of the component articles, materials, or supplies of such 
        foreign end product are manufactured substantially all from 
        articles, materials, or supplies mined, produced, or 
        manufactured in the United States if--
                    (A) the application of paragraph (1) results in an 
                unreasonable cost; or
                    (B) no offers are submitted to supply manufactured 
                articles, materials, or supplies manufactured 
                substantially all from articles, materials, or supplies 
                mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States.
            (6) Applicability.--The requirements of this subsection 
        shall apply to contracts entered into on or after January 1, 
        2026.
    (b) Reporting on Country of Origin Manufacturing.--Not later than 
one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually 
thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report 
on country of origin tracking and reporting as it relates to 
manufactured content procured as part of Navy shipbuilding programs, 
including through primary contracts and subcontracts at the second and 
third tiers. The report shall describe measures taken to ensure that 
the country of origin information pertaining to such content is 
reported accurately in terms of the location of manufacture and not 
determined by the location of sale.

SEC. 867. ADDITION OF ADMINISTRATOR OF THE SMALL BUSINESS 
              ADMINISTRATION TO THE FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATORY 
              COUNCIL.

    Section 1302(b)(1) of title 41, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``; and'' and 
        inserting a semicolon;
            (2) in subparagraph (D), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(E) the Administrator of the Small Business 
                Administration.''.

SEC. 868. MODIFICATIONS TO RIGHTS IN TECHNICAL DATA.

    Section 3771(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3)(C), by inserting ``for which the 
        United States shall have government purpose rights, unless the 
        Government and the contractor negotiate different license 
        rights'' after ``component)''; and
            (2) in paragraph (4)(A)--
                    (A) in clause (ii), by striking ``; or'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (B) by redesignating clause (iii) as clause (iv); 
                and
                    (C) by inserting after clause (ii) the following 
                new clause (iii):
                            ``(iii) is a release, disclosure, or use of 
                        detailed manufacturing or process data--
                                    ``(I) that is necessary for 
                                operation, maintenance, installation, 
                                or training and shall be used only for 
                                operation, maintenance, installation, 
                                or training purposes supporting wartime 
                                operations or contingency operations; 
                                and
                                    ``(II) for which the head of an 
                                agency determines that the original 
                                supplier of such data will be unable to 
                                satisfy military readiness or 
                                operational requirements for such 
                                operations; or''.

      TITLE IX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

   Subtitle A--Office of the Secretary of Defense and Related Matters

SEC. 901. ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE OF STRATEGIC CAPITAL.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 4 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 148. Office of Strategic Capital
    ``(a) Establishment.--There is in the Office of the Secretary of 
Defense an office to be known as the Office of Strategic Capital (in 
this section referred to as the `Office').
    ``(b) Director.--The Office shall be headed by a Director (in this 
section referred to as the `Director'), who shall be appointed by the 
Secretary from among employees of the Department of Defense in Senior 
Executive Service positions (as defined in section 3132 of title 5).
    ``(c) Duties.--The Office shall--
            ``(1) develop, integrate, and implement proven capital 
        strategies of partners of the Department of Defense to shape 
        and scale investment in critical technologies and assets;
            ``(2) identify and prioritize promising critical 
        technologies and assets for the Department in need of capital 
        assistance; and
            ``(3) fund investments in such technologies and assets, 
        including supply chain technologies not always supported 
        through direct investment.
    ``(d) Applications.--An eligible entity seeking capital assistance 
for an eligible investment shall submit to the Director an application 
at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the 
Director may require.
    ``(e) Selection of Investments.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Director shall establish criteria 
        for selecting among eligible investments for which applications 
        are submitted under subsection (d). Such criteria shall 
        include--
                    ``(A) the extent to which an investment is 
                significant to the national security of the United 
                States;
                    ``(B) the likelihood that capital assistance 
                provided for an investment would enable the investment 
                to proceed sooner than the investment would otherwise 
                be able to proceed; and
                    ``(C) the creditworthiness of an investment.
            ``(2) Notice and wait requirement.--The criteria 
        established under paragraph (1) shall not apply until--
                    ``(A) the Secretary of Defense submits the criteria 
                to the congressional defense committees; and
                    ``(B) a period of 30 days has elapsed after such 
                submission.
    ``(f) Notification.--Not less than 30 days before exercising the 
authority provided by section 834 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2024, the Director, in coordination with the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment and the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, shall notify the 
congressional defense committees of the purpose and terms of any 
capital assistance proposed to be provided under that section. Such 
notification may be made in classified form, if necessary.
    ``(g) Strategic Capital Advisory Board.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall establish a Strategic Capital Advisory Board to advise the 
Director with respect to activities carried out under this section.
    ``(h) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations 
as are necessary to carry out this section, including regulations to 
ensure internal and external coordination to avoid duplication of 
effort, reduce inefficiency, and ensure policy coherence across the 
Department.
    ``(i) Effective Date.--The authorities made available under this 
section may not be exercised until the date that is 30 days after the 
regulations required by subsection (i) have been--
            ``(1) prescribed and adopted by the Department; and
            ``(2) submitted to the congressional defense committees.
    ``(j) Annual Report.--Not later than December 31 of each ye ar, the 
Director shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
that--
            ``(1) describes the activities of the Office during the 
        most recent fiscal year ending before submission of the report, 
        including--
                    ``(A) an identification of entities that received 
                capital assistance from the Office during that fiscal 
                year;
                    ``(B) a description of the status of the financial 
                obligations of those entities as a result of receiving 
                such assistance; and
                    ``(C) any success stories as a result of such 
                assistance;
            ``(2) assesses the status of the finances of the Office as 
        of the end of that fiscal year; and
            ``(3) describes the goals of the Office for the fiscal year 
        that begins after submission of the report.
    ``(k) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Capital assistance.--The term `capital assistance' 
        means loans, loan guarantees, equity investments, or technical 
        assistance provided under section 834.
            ``(2) Eligible entity.--The term `eligible entity' means--
                    ``(A) an individual;
                    ``(B) a corporation;
                    ``(C) a partnership, including a public-private 
                partnership;
                    ``(D) a joint venture;
                    ``(E) a trust;
                    ``(F) a State, including a political subdivision or 
                any other instrumentality of a State;
                    ``(G) a Tribal government or consortium of Tribal 
                governments;
                    ``(H) any other governmental entity or public 
                agency in the United States, including a special 
                purpose district or public authority, including a port 
                authority; or
                    ``(I) a multi-State or multi-jurisdictional group 
                of public entities.
            ``(3) Eligible investment.--The term `eligible investment' 
        means an investment that facilitates the efforts of the 
        Office--
                    ``(A) to identify, accelerate, and sustain the 
                establishment, research, development, construction, 
                procurement, leasing, consolidation, alteration, 
                improvement, or repair of tangible and intangible 
                assets vital to United States national security; or
                    ``(B) to protect tangible and intangible assets 
                vital to United States national security from theft, 
                acquisition, and transfer by countries that are 
                adversaries of the United States.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 4 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following 
new item:

``148. Office of Strategic Capital.''.

SEC. 902. REINSTATEMENT OF POSITION OF CHIEF MANAGEMENT OFFICER OF 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Reinstatement of Position.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 4 of title 10, United States Code, 
        is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 132 
        the following new item:
``Sec. 132a. Chief Management Officer
    ``(a) Appointment and Qualifications.--(1) There is a Chief 
Management Officer of the Department of Defense, appointed from 
civilian life by the President, by and with the advice and consent of 
the Senate.
    ``(2) The Chief Management Officer shall be appointed from among 
persons who have an extensive management or business background and 
experience with managing large or complex organizations. A person may 
not be appointed as Chief Management Officer within seven years after 
relief from active duty as a commissioned officer of a regular 
component of an armed force.
    ``(b) Responsibilities.--Subject to the authority, direction, and 
control of the Secretary of Defense and the Deputy Secretary of 
Defense, the Chief Management Officer shall perform such duties and 
exercise such powers as the Secretary or the Deputy Secretary may 
prescribe, including the following:
            ``(1) Serving as the chief management officer of the 
        Department of Defense with the mission of managing enterprise 
        business operations and shared services of the Department of 
        Defense.
            ``(2) Serving as the principal advisor to the Secretary and 
        the Deputy Secretary on establishing policies for, and 
        directing, all enterprise business operations of the 
        Department, including planning and processes, business 
        transformation, and performance measurement and management 
        activities and programs, including the allocation of resources 
        for enterprise business operations and unifying business 
        management efforts across the Department.
            ``(3) Exercising authority, direction, and control over the 
        Defense Agencies and Department of Defense Field Activities 
        providing shared business services for the Department.
            ``(4) Authority to direct the Secretaries of the military 
        departments and the heads of all other elements of the 
        Department with regard to matters for which the Chief 
        Management Officer has responsibility under this section.
            ``(5) Serving as the official with principal responsibility 
        in the Department for minimizing the duplication of efforts, 
        maximizing efficiency and effectiveness, and establishing 
        metrics for performance among and for all organizations and 
        elements of the Department.
    ``(c) Budget Authority.--(1)(A) Beginning in fiscal year 2025, the 
Secretary of Defense, acting through the Under Secretary of Defense 
(Comptroller), shall require the head of each Defense Agency and 
Department of Defense Field Activity (other than such agencies and 
activities that are under the direction of the Director of National 
Intelligence or are elements of the intelligence community) to transmit 
the proposed budget of such Agency or Activity for enterprise business 
operations for a fiscal year, and for the period covered by the future-
years defense program submitted to Congress under section 221 of this 
title for that fiscal year, to the Chief Management Officer for review 
under subparagraph (B) at the same time the proposed budget is 
submitted to the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller).
    ``(B) The Chief Management Officer shall review each proposed 
budget transmitted under subparagraph (A) and, not later than January 
31 of the year preceding the fiscal year for which the budget is 
proposed, shall submit to the Secretary a report containing the 
comments of the Chief Management Officer with respect to all such 
proposed budgets, together with the certification of the Chief 
Management Officer regarding whether each such proposed budget achieves 
the required level of efficiency and effectiveness for enterprise 
business operations, consistent with guidance for budget review 
established by the Chief Management Officer.
    ``(C) Not later than March 31 each year, the Secretary shall submit 
to Congress a report that includes the following:
            ``(i) Each proposed budget for the enterprise business 
        operations of a Defense Agency or Department of Defense Field 
        Activity that was transmitted to the Chief Management Officer 
        under subparagraph (A).
            ``(ii) Identification of each proposed budget contained in 
        the most recent report submitted under subparagraph (B) that 
        the Chief Management Officer did not certify as achieving the 
        required level of efficiency and effectiveness for enterprise 
        business operations.
            ``(iii) A discussion of the actions that the Secretary 
        proposes to take, together with any recommended legislation 
        that the Secretary considers appropriate, to address inadequate 
        levels of efficiency and effectiveness for enterprise business 
        operations achieved by the proposed budgets identified in the 
        report.
            ``(iv) Any additional comments that the Secretary considers 
        appropriate regarding inadequate levels of efficiency and 
        effectiveness for enterprise business operations achieved by 
        the proposed budgets.
    ``(2) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to modify or 
interfere with the budget-related responsibilities of the Director of 
National Intelligence.
    ``(d) Precedence.--The Chief Management Officer takes precedence in 
the Department of Defense after the Secretary of Defense and the Deputy 
Secretary of Defense.
    ``(e) Enterprise Business Operation Defined.--In this section, the 
term `enterprise business operations' means those activities that 
constitute the cross-cutting business operations used by multiple 
components of the Department of Defense, but not those activities that 
are directly tied to a single military department or Department of 
Defense component. The term includes business-support functions 
designated by the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy Secretary of 
Defense for purposes of this section, such as aspects of financial 
management, healthcare, acquisition and procurement, supply chain and 
logistics, certain information technology, real property, and human 
resources operations.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 4 of such title is amended by inserting 
        after the item relating to section 132 the following new item:

``132a. Chief Management Officer.''.
    (b) Management and Oversight of Defense Business Systems.--Section 
2222 of such title is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ``the Chief 
        Information Officer of the Department of Defense'' and 
        inserting ``the Chief Management Officer of the Department of 
        Defense'';
            (2) in subsection (e)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``the Chief 
                Information Officer'' and inserting ``the Chief 
                Management Officer''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (6)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), in the matter 
                        preceding clause (i)--
                                    (I) in the first sentence, by 
                                striking ``The Chief Information 
                                Officer of the Department of Defense, 
                                in coordination with the Chief Data and 
                                Artificial Intelligence Officer,'' and 
                                inserting ``The Chief Management 
                                Officer of the Department of Defense''; 
                                and
                                    (II) in the second sentence, by 
                                striking ``the Chief Information 
                                Officer shall'' and inserting ``the 
                                Chief Management Officer shall'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), in the matter 
                        preceding clause (i), by striking ``The Chief 
                        Information Officer'' and inserting ``The Chief 
                        Management Officer'';
            (3) in subsection (f)(1), in the second sentence, by 
        inserting ``the Chief Management Officer and'' after ``chaired 
        by'';
            (4) in subsection (g)(2), by striking ``the Chief 
        Information Officer of the Department of Defense'' each place 
        it appears and inserting ``the Chief Management Officer of the 
        Department of Defense''; and
            (5) in subsection (i)(5)(B), by striking ``the Chief 
        Information Officer'' and inserting ``the Chief Management 
        Officer''.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--Section 131(b) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after paragraph (1) the following 
new paragraph (2):
            ``(2) The Chief Management Officer of the Department of 
        Defense.''.
    (d) Guidance Required.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall--
            (1) issue guidance to clearly delineate the authorities and 
        responsibilities of the Chief Management Officer of the 
        Department of Defense; and
            (2) provide a charter for the position of the Chief 
        Management Officer to fully vest the authority of the Chief 
        Management Officer within the Department of Defense.
    (e) Report on Effect of Lapse in Management Oversight on Defense 
Business Systems.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Deputy Secretary of Defense 
        shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
        on the effect on defense business systems of the abolishment of 
        the position of Chief Management Officer and the failure to 
        reassign the responsibilities of the Chief Management Officer 
        with respect to defense business systems for two years.
            (2) Defense business system defined.--In this subsection, 
        the term ``defense business system'' has the meaning given that 
        term in section 2222(i) of title 10, United States Code.

SEC. 903. MODIFICATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTOR OF COST 
              ASSESSMENT AND PROGRAM EVALUATION.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (d) of section 139a of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (5)--
                    (A) by striking ``, ensuring'' and inserting ``and 
                ensuring''; and
                    (B) by striking ``, and assessing'' and all that 
                follows through ``economy''; and
            (2) in paragraph (8), by inserting after ``defense 
        resources'' the following: ``, including the standardization of 
        analytical methodologies and the establishment and maintenance 
        of a centralized knowledge repository of physical attributes or 
        other data for modeling and simulation purposes''.
    (b) Annual Reports.--Such section is amended by adding at the end 
the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Annual Reports.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than February 1, 2024, and 
        annually thereafter, the Director shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report on activities to 
        conduct strategic and operational analysis under paragraphs 
        (2), (3), (6), (7), and (8) of subsection (d) that includes--
                    ``(A) a review of strategic portfolio reviews 
                completed in the fiscal year preceding submission of 
                the report and a description of such reviews planned 
                for the fiscal year that begins after submission of the 
                report;
                    ``(B) a review of analyses of alternatives 
                completed in the fiscal year preceding submission of 
                the report and a description of such analyses planned 
                for the fiscal year that begins after submission of the 
                report; and
                    ``(C) a review of defense program projections 
                completed in the fiscal year preceding submission of 
                the report and a description of such projections 
                planned for the fiscal year that begins after 
                submission of the report.
            ``(2) Form.--Each report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in classified form, but shall include an unclassified 
        summary.
            ``(3) Briefings.--Not later than 15 days after submission 
        of each report required by paragraph (1), the Director shall 
        brief the congressional defense committees on the contents of 
        the report.''.
    (c) Program Evaluation Competitive Analysis Cell.--Such section is 
further amended by adding after subsection (e), as added by subsection 
(b), the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Program Evaluation Competitive Analysis Cell.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than June 1, 2024, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall--
                    ``(A) establish a team, to be known as the `Program 
                Evaluation Competitive Analysis Cell', to critically 
                assess the analytical methodologies, assumptions, and 
                data used in key strategic and operational analyses 
                conducted by the Director; and
                    ``(B) ensure that the team has a sufficient number 
                of personnel to carry out the duties of the team.
            ``(2) Independence.--The Program Evaluation Competitive 
        Analysis Cell shall be independent of the Director and shall 
        report only to the Secretary of Defense.''.
    (d) Pilot Program on Alternative Analysis.--
            (1) In general.--The Director of Cost Assessment and 
        Program Evaluation shall establish a pilot program on 
        alternative analysis.
            (2) Structure.--The Director shall establish, under the 
        pilot program established under paragraph (1), three analytical 
        groups, focused on programmatic analysis in the following:
                    (A) Year 1 of the future-years defense program 
                under section 221 of title 10, United States Code.
                    (B) Years 2 through 5 of the future-years defense 
                program.
                    (C) Years outside the future-years defense program.
            (3) Requirements.--The pilot program established under 
        paragraph (1) shall run at least one strategic portfolio review 
        or equivalent analytical effort per year.
    (e) Establishment of Analysis Working Group.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than May 1, 2024, the Secretary 
        of Defense shall--
                    (A) establish the Analysis Working Group in the 
                Department of Defense; and
                    (B) ensure that the Analysis Working Group 
                possesses sufficient full-time equivalent support 
                personnel to carry out the duties of the Group.
            (2) Membership.--The Analysis Working Group shall be 
        composed of representatives of the following components of the 
        Department of Defense:
                    (A) The Office of the Director of Cost Assessment 
                and Program Evaluation.
                    (B) The Directorate for Joint Force Development 
                (J7) of the Joint Staff.
                    (C) The Directorate for Force Structure, Resources, 
                and Assessment (J8) of the Joint Staff.
                    (D) The Office of the Secretary of Defense for 
                Policy.
                    (E) The Chief Data and Artificial Intelligence 
                Office.
                    (F) The Office of the Chief Information Officer.
                    (G) The United States Indo-Pacific Command.
                    (H) The United States European Command.
            (3) Duties.--The Analysis Working Group shall--
                    (A) establish clear priorities and standards to 
                focus analysts on decision support;
                    (B) improve transparency of methodologies, tools, 
                and tradecraft across the analytic community, including 
                testing and validation for new or emerging 
                methodologies, tools, and tradecraft;
                    (C) improve quality of and expand access to data, 
                including evaluation of new data sets, or application 
                of existing data sets in new or novel ways;
                    (D) evolve the methodologies, tools, and tradecraft 
                methods and tools used in strategic analysis;
                    (E) resolve classified access and infrastructure 
                challenges;
                    (F) foster a workforce and organizations that are 
                innovative, creative, and provide high-quality 
                strategic decision support; and
                    (G) conduct such other tasks as the Secretary of 
                Defense considers appropriate.
    (f) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to interfere with the requirements of the Chiefs of Staff of 
the Armed Forces to establish military requirements, performance 
requirements, and joint performance requirements, or the requirement of 
the Joint Requirements Oversight Council to validate such requirements 
under section 181 of title 10, United States Code.

SEC. 904. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES FOR COMPONENTS OF OFFICE OF 
              SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR JOINT ALL-DOMAIN COMMAND AND 
              CONTROL IN SUPPORT OF INTEGRATED JOINT WARFIGHTING.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish the roles 
and responsibilities of components of the Office of the Secretary of 
Defense for development and delivery to combatant commands of 
capabilities that are essential to integrated joint warfighting 
capabilities, as follows:
            (1) The Deputy Chief Technology Officer for Mission 
        Capabilities of the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense 
        for Research and Engineering shall be responsible for--
                    (A) identifying new technology and operational 
                concepts for experimentation and prototyping for 
                delivery to the Joint Force to address key operational 
                challenges;
                    (B) providing technical support for the Joint Force 
                in exploring and analyzing new capabilities, 
                operational concepts, and systems-of-systems 
                composition, including through advanced modeling and 
                simulation; and
                    (C) executing associated experimentation, through 
                the Rapid Defense Experimentation Reserve (RDER) or 
                another mechanism.
            (2) The Executive Director for Acquisition, Integration, 
        and Interoperability of the Office of the Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall be responsible 
        for--
                    (A) enabling the acquisition of cross-domain, 
                joint, and cross-system kill chains and mission 
                capabilities, including resourcing of modifications 
                necessary for integration and interoperability among 
                kill chain and mission components; and
                    (B) ensuring the effectiveness of cross-domain, 
                joint, and cross-system kill chains and mission 
                capabilities through analysis and testing.
            (3) The Chief Digital and Artificial Intelligence Officer 
        shall be responsible for creating and operating a factory-based 
        approach for software development that allows for iterative, 
        secure, and continuous deployment of developmental, prototype, 
        and operational tools and capabilities from multiple vendors to 
        test networks and operational networks for combatant commanders 
        to--
                    (A) gain operational awareness, make decisions, and 
                take actions;
                    (B) integrate relevant data sources to support 
                target selection, target prioritization, and weapon-
                target pairing; and
                    (C) prosecute targets through military service and 
                combat support agency networks, tools, and systems.
    (b) Coordination.--The officials referred to in paragraphs (1), 
(2), and (3) of subsection (a) shall coordinate and align their plans 
and activities to implement subsection (a) among themselves and with 
the combatant commanders.
    (c) Initial Prioritization.--In developing an initial set of 
capabilities described in subsection (a), the officials referred to in 
paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of that subsection shall prioritize the 
requirements of the United States Indo-Pacific Command.
    (d) Briefings Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter through 
December 31, 2026, the officials referred to in paragraphs (1), (2), 
and (3) of subsection (a) shall provide briefings to the congressional 
defense committees on their plans and activities to implement 
subsection (a).
    (e) Report Required.--Not later than March 1, 2024, the Chief Data 
and Artificial Intelligence Officer, in consultation with the Deputy 
Chief Technology Officer for Mission Capabilities of the Office of the 
Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering and the 
Executive Director for Acquisition, Integration, and Interoperability 
of the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
Sustainment, shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report that includes--
            (1) a plan and associated timelines for deploying and 
        demonstrating a joint data integration layer prototype in the 
        United States Indo-Pacific Command area of operations;
            (2) a plan and associated timelines for transitioning such 
        a prototype, upon its successful demonstration, to fielding as 
        soon as practicable given the urgent need for a joint all-
        domain command and control (commonly referred to as ``JADC2'') 
        capability;
            (3) a plan and associated timelines for reaching initial 
        operational capability for a joint data integration layer 
        within the United States Indo-Pacific Command area of 
        operations;
            (4) a plan and associated timelines for scaling that 
        capability to future areas of operation across the combatant 
        commands;
            (5) an assessment of the required type and number of 
        personnel at the United States Indo-Pacific Command to enable 
        sustained growth in JADC2 capabilities; and
            (6) a plan and associated timelines for--
                    (A) identifying specific critical effects chains 
                necessary to overcome anti-access and area denial 
                capabilities and offensive military operations of 
                foreign adversaries; and
                    (B) creating, demonstrating, deploying, and 
                sustaining such chains.

SEC. 905. PRINCIPAL DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARIES TO SUPPORT ASSISTANT 
              SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR SPECIAL OPERATIONS AND LOW 
              INTENSITY CONFLICT.

    The Secretary of Defense may appoint two Principal Deputy Assistant 
Secretaries to report to the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special 
Operations and Low Intensity Conflict--
            (1) one of whom may be assigned to support the Assistant 
        Secretary in the discharge of responsibilities specified in 
        clause (i) of section 138(b)(2)(A) of title 10, United States 
        Code; and
            (2) one of whom may be assigned to support the Assistant 
        Secretary in the discharge of responsibilities specified in 
        clause (ii) of that section.

SEC. 906. MODIFICATION OF CROSS-FUNCTIONAL TEAM TO ADDRESS EMERGING 
              THREAT RELATING TO DIRECTED ENERGY CAPABILITIES.

    Section 910 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2022 (Public Law 117-81; 10 U.S.C. 111 note) is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``anomalous health 
        incidents'' and inserting ``directed energy capabilities'';
            (2) in subsection (a), by striking ``anomalous health 
        incidents (as defined by the Secretary)'' and inserting 
        ``emerging directed energy capabilities, including such 
        capabilities that could plausibly result in anomalous health 
        incidents (as defined by the Secretary),'';
            (3) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                inserting ``to assist the Secretary of Defense'' after 
                ``shall be'';
                    (B) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
            ``(1) to address the threat posed by emerging directed 
        energy capabilities, such as anti-personnel weapons, including 
        the detection and mitigation of, and development of 
        countermeasures for, such capabilities;'';
                    (C) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as 
                paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively;
                    (D) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following 
                new paragraph (2):
            ``(2) to conduct necessary investigation and activities to 
        understand the causation, attribution, mitigation, 
        identification, and treatment for anomalous health 
        incidents;''; and
                    (E) in paragraph (4), as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (C), by striking ``any other efforts 
                regarding such incidents'' and inserting ``with any 
                other efforts regarding emerging directed energy 
                capabilities, hazards of electromagnetic radiation to 
                personnel, and anomalous health incidents'';
            (4) in subsection (d), by striking ``in consultation with 
        the Director of National Intelligence and''; and
            (5) in subsection (e)(2)--
                    (A) by striking ``March 1, 2026'' and inserting 
                ``March 1, 2028''; and
                    (B) by striking ``anomalous health incidents'' and 
                inserting ``emerging directed energy capabilities, 
                including such capabilities that could plausibly result 
                in anomalous health incidents''.

SEC. 907. PILOT PROGRAM ON PROTECTING ACCESS TO CRITICAL ASSETS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish a pilot 
program within the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Sustainment under which the Under Secretary will 
conduct and coordinate assessments, support industrial base decision-
making, and provide mitigation measures to counter adversarial capital 
flows into industries or businesses of interest to the Department of 
Defense intended to undermine or deny--
            (1) the access of the United States to key capabilities; or
            (2) the ability of the United States to place such 
        capabilities in physical locations necessary for national 
        security functions.
    (b) Elements.--
            (1) In general.--Under the pilot program required by 
        subsection (a), the Under Secretary may perform the following 
        tasks:
                    (A) Conduct coordinated and integrated analysis of 
                adversarial capital flows into industries or businesses 
                of interest to the Department of Defense.
                    (B) Support coordination and outreach with 
                technology scouting and acquisition elements of the 
                Department to support the investment decision-making of 
                those elements and consideration of how to counteract 
                entities employing adversarial capital flows against 
                industries or businesses described in subparagraph (A), 
                including the employment of relevant authorities vested 
                in other components of the Department and the Federal 
                Government.
                    (C) Identify, accelerate, and sustain the 
                establishment, research, development, construction, 
                procurement, leasing, consolidation, alteration, 
                improvement, modernization, and repair of tangible and 
                intangible assets vital to the national security of the 
                United States.
                    (D) Protect tangible and intangible assets vital to 
                the national security of the United States from theft, 
                acquisition, and transfer by adversaries or strategic 
                competitors of the United States.
                    (E) Provide capital assistance to entities engaged 
                in investments that facilitate the efforts of the Under 
                Secretary under subparagraphs (C) and (D) utilizing 
                existing authorities available to the Department, such 
                as the authority provided under section 834.
                    (F) Experiment, prototype, test, or validate 
                Government-developed or commercially developed 
                analytical tools, processes, and tradecraft to improve 
                the due diligence and investment analysis processes for 
                the Department.
            (2) Use of certain financial instruments.--The Under 
        Secretary may perform the tasks described in paragraph (1) 
        using the authorities provided by section 834.
    (c) Coordination.--In establishing the pilot program required by 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall coordinate the activities being 
carried out under the pilot program with the following entities:
            (1) The Air Force Office of Concepts, Development, and 
        Management.
            (2) The Air Force Office of Commercial and Economic 
        Analysis.
            (3) The Special Operations Command.
            (4) The Defense Innovation Unit.
            (5) The Office of Strategic Capital established under 
        section 148 of title 10, United States Code, as added by 
        section 901.
            (6) Such other entities as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
    (d) Regulations.--The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe such 
regulations as are necessary to carry out this section.
    (e) Effective Date.--The Secretary may not carry out activities or 
exercise authorities under this section until the date that is 30 days 
after the date on which the Secretary submits to the congressional 
defense committees the regulations required by subsection (d).
    (f) Briefing Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary shall provide a briefing 
to the congressional defense committees that details implementation of 
the pilot program required by subsection (a).
    (g) Termination.--The pilot program required by subsection (a) 
shall terminate on September 30, 2028.
    (h) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Adversarial capital flow.--The term ``adversarial 
        capital flow'' means an investment by--
                    (A) the government of a country that is an 
                adversary of the United States; or
                    (B) an entity organized under the laws of, or 
                otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of, such a 
                country.
            (2) Capital assistance.--The term ``capital assistance'' 
        has the meaning given that term in section 834.

SEC. 908. EXTENSION OF MISSION MANAGEMENT PILOT PROGRAM.

    Section 871 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2022 (Public Law 117-81; 10 U.S.C. 191 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``In General.--Except'' and 
                        inserting the following: ``In General.--
                    ``(A) Selection.--Except''; and
                            (ii) by adding at the end the following new 
                        subparagraph:
                    ``(B) Delegation of oversight and management.--The 
                Deputy Secretary of Defense may delegate one or more 
                mission managers to oversee the selected missions and 
                provide management around mission outcomes.''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(4) Identification of funding.--For each mission selected 
        under paragraph (1), the Deputy Secretary of Defense shall 
        identify funding sources in detail in defense budget materials 
        for budgets submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of 
        title 31, United States Code, with selected missions and 
        solution detailed in materials for each budgetary item 
        associated with a selected mission.'';
            (2) in subsection (c)(2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraph (F) as 
                subparagraph (G); and
                    (C) by inserting after subparagraph (E) the 
                following new subparagraph:
                    ``(F) assist the Deputy Secretary of Defense in the 
                identification of funding that could contribute to the 
                mission, including through existing authorized methods 
                to realign, reprogram, or transfer funds; and'';
            (3) in subsection (f)(1)(A), by striking ``every six months 
        thereafter until the date that is five years after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act'' and inserting ``annually thereafter 
        until September 30, 2031''; and
            (4) in subsection (h), by striking ``terminate on the date 
        that is five years after the date of the enactment of this 
        Act'' and inserting ``terminate on September 30, 2031''.

SEC. 909. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO CARRY OUT ELIMINATION OF POSITION OF 
              CHIEF MANAGEMENT OFFICER.

    (a) Removal of References to Chief Management Officer in Provisions 
of Law Relating to Precedence.--Chapter 4 of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in section 133a(c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``, the Deputy 
                Secretary of Defense, and the Chief Management Officer 
                of the Department of Defense'' and inserting ``and the 
                Deputy Secretary of Defense''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``the Chief 
                Management Officer,'';
            (2) in section 133b(c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``the Chief 
                Management Officer of the Department of Defense,''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``the Chief 
                Management Officer,'';
            (3) in section 137a(d), by striking ``the Chief Management 
        Officer of the Department of Defense,''; and
            (4) in section 138(d), by striking ``the Chief Management 
        Officer of the Department of Defense,''.
    (b) Assignment of Periodic Review of Defense Agencies and 
Department of Defense Field Activities to Secretary of Defense.--
Section 192(c) of such title is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), in the first sentence, by 
                striking ``the Chief Management Officer of the 
                Department of Defense'' and inserting ``the Secretary 
                of Defense''; and
                    (B) in subparagraphs (B) and (C), by striking ``the 
                Chief Management Officer'' and inserting ``the 
                Secretary''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``the Chief Management 
        Officer'' each place it appears and inserting ``the 
        Secretary''.
    (c) Assignment of Responsibility for Financial Improvement and 
Audit Remediation to Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller).--Section 
240b of such title is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``The Chief 
        Management Officer of the Department of Defense shall, in 
        consultation with the Under Secretary of Defense 
        (Comptroller),'' and inserting ``The Under Secretary of Defense 
        (Comptroller) shall, in consultation with the Performance 
        Improvement Officer of the Department of Defense,''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)(1)(C)(ii), by striking ``the Chief 
        Management Officer'' and inserting ``the Performance 
        Improvement Officer''.
    (d) Removal of Chief Management Officer as Recipient of Reports of 
Audits by External Auditors.--Section 240d(d)(1)(A) of such title is 
amended by striking ``and the Chief Management Officer of the 
Department of Defense''.
    (e) Conforming Amendments to Provisions of Law Related to Freedom 
of Information Act Exemptions.--Such title is further amended--
            (1) in section 130e--
                    (A) by striking subsection (d);
                    (B) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as 
                subsections (d) and (e), respectively; and
                    (C) in subsection (d), as so redesignated--
                            (i) in the first sentence, by striking ``, 
                        or the Secretary's designee,''; and
                            (ii) in the second sentence, by striking 
                        ``, through the Office of the Director of 
                        Administration and Management''; and
            (2) in section 2254a--
                    (A) by striking subsection (c);
                    (B) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection 
                (c); and
                    (C) in subsection (c), as so redesignated--
                            (i) in the first sentence, by striking ``, 
                        or the Secretary's designee,''; and
                            (ii) in the second sentence, by striking 
                        ``, through the Office of the Director of 
                        Administration and Management''.
    (f) Removal of Chief Management Officer as Required Coordinator on 
Defense Resale Matters.--Section 631(a) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92; 10 U.S.C. 
2481 note) is amended by striking ``, in coordination with the Chief 
Management Officer of the Department of Defense,''.

  Subtitle B--Other Department of Defense Organization and Management 
                                Matters

SEC. 921. JOINT ENERGETICS TRANSITION OFFICE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall realign roles, 
responsibilities, and resources as necessary to establish a Joint 
Energetics Transition Office (in this section referred to as the 
``Office'').
    (b) Responsibilities.--The Office shall--
            (1) develop and periodically update an energetic materials 
        strategic plan and investment strategy to guide current and 
        future investments in new and legacy energetic materials and 
        technologies, including by--
                    (A) developing or supporting the development of 
                strategies and roadmaps, under the future-years defense 
                program under section 221 of title 10, United States 
                Code, and the program objective memorandum process, for 
                energetic materials and technologies; and
                    (B) initiating special studies or analyses to 
                inform the program objective memorandum process;
            (2) coordinate and synchronize existing research, 
        development, test, and evaluation efforts in energetic 
        materials across the Department of Defense to identify 
        promising new energetic materials and technologies--
                    (A) to mature, integrate, prototype, and 
                demonstrate novel energetic materials and technologies, 
                including classification and characterization testing 
                of new materials and manufacturing technologies;
                    (B) to expedite testing, evaluation, and 
                acquisition of energetic materials and technologies to 
                meet the emergent needs of the Department, including 
                the rapid integration of promising new materials and 
                other promising energetic compounds into existing and 
                planned weapons platforms; and
                    (C) to identify existing or establish new 
                prototyping demonstration venues to integrate advanced 
                technologies that speed the maturation and deployment 
                of future energetic materials;
            (3) oversee a process to expedite the qualification process 
        for energetic materials, from discovery through integration 
        into weapon systems, and recommend changes to laws, 
        regulations, and policies that present barriers that extend 
        timelines for that process; and
            (4) carry out such other responsibilities relating to 
        energetic materials as the Secretary shall specify.
    (c) Report Required.--The Deputy Secretary of Defense shall submit 
to the congressional defense committees--
            (1) not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, a report on the status of the establishment of the 
        Office under subsection (a); and
            (2) not later than one year after such date of enactment, a 
        report on the measures taken to provide the Office with the 
        staff and resources necessary for the Office to carry out its 
        responsibilities under subsection (b).

SEC. 922. TRANSITION OF OVERSIGHT RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE DEFENSE 
              TECHNOLOGY SECURITY ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Plan Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall develop a 
transition plan to realign the Defense Technology Security 
Administration under the authority, direction, and control of the 
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Industrial Base Policy.
    (b) Submission of Plan.--Not later than 7 days after the date on 
which the Secretary completes development of the plan required by 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit the plan to the 
congressional defense committees.
    (c) Implementation of Plan.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
on which the Secretary completes development of the plan required by 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall realign the Defense Technology 
Security Administration under the authority, direction, and control of 
the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Industrial Base Policy.

SEC. 923. INTEGRATED AND AUTHENTICATED ACCESS TO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              SYSTEMS FOR CERTAIN CONGRESSIONAL STAFF FOR OVERSIGHT 
              PURPOSES.

    Section 1046(a) of the James M. Inhofe National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking ``; and'' and 
        inserting a semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) to the extent feasible, be integrated with software 
        used by the Department of Defense Parking Management Office to 
        validate parking requests.''.

SEC. 924. INTEGRATION OF PRODUCTIVITY SOFTWARE SUITES FOR SCHEDULING 
              DATA.

    The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the Department of 
Defense is capable of scheduling congressional engagements in a 
digitally interoperable manner by not later than February 25, 2024, 
either through--
            (1) integrating the productivity software suite of the 
        Department of Defense with the productivity software suite of 
        the congressional defense committees; or
            (2) enabling the automated transmission of scheduling data 
        through another software solution.

SEC. 925. OPERATIONALIZING AUDIT READINESS.

    (a) Metrics Required.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, in coordination 
        with the Secretaries of the military departments, shall develop 
        a set of command audit metrics that link existing audit 
        readiness goals and metrics for the financial management 
        community with unit leadership goals and metrics to provide 
        operationally relevant performance measures for use by unit 
        commanders.
            (2) Leveraging support.--In developing the metrics required 
        by paragraph (1), the Secretary may leverage support from an 
        existing federally funded research and development center or 
        university-affiliated research center.
            (3) Deadline.--An initial set of metrics shall be developed 
        and implemented under paragraph (1) not later than April 30, 
        2025.
    (b) Training.--
            (1) In general.--The President of the Defense Acquisition 
        University shall develop training curricula to support the 
        workforce of the Department of Defense in understanding, 
        implementing, and utilizing the metrics developed under 
        subsection (a) in the day-to-day performance of their command 
        and leadership duties.
            (2) Deadline.--An initial training curriculum shall be 
        developed and implemented under paragraph (1) not later than 
        April 30, 2025.
    (c) Leader Performance Assessments.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, in coordination 
        with the Secretaries of the military departments, shall 
        evaluate means by which the metrics developed under subsection 
        (a) can be used in the performance evaluation of unit 
        commanders.
            (2) Briefing required.--Not later than September 30, 2024, 
        the Secretary shall provide a briefing to the Committees on 
        Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives 
        on the evaluation conducted under paragraph (1). The briefing 
        shall include the following elements:
                    (A) Identification of the appropriate command 
                echelon at which to assess unit leader performance 
                using the metrics developed under subsection (a).
                    (B) Evaluations of available measures to reward 
                superior or above average performance with respect to 
                such metrics.
                    (C) Assessment of the potential value, and 
                challenges, to integrating such measures into the 
                annual performance evaluations for designated unit 
                leaders.
                    (D) Any other issues the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.

SEC. 926. NEXT GENERATION BUSINESS HEALTH METRICS.

    (a) Metrics Required.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through the 
Director of Administration and Management and in coordination with the 
Secretaries of the military departments, shall develop an updated set 
of business health metrics to inform decision-making by senior leaders 
of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Elements.--In developing the metrics required by subsection 
(a), the Director shall--
            (1) using the current literature on performance 
        measurement, determine what additional new metrics should be 
        implemented, or current metrics should be adapted, to reduce 
        output-based measures and emphasize objective, measurable 
        indicators aligned to enduring strategic goals of the 
        Department of Defense;
            (2) assess the current business processes of the Department 
        and provide recommendations to align the metrics with available 
        data sources to determine what gaps might exist in such 
        processes;
            (3) ensure that data can be collected automatically and, on 
        a long-term basis, in a manner that provides for longitudinal 
        analysis;
            (4) link the metrics with the Strategic Management Plan and 
        other performance documents guiding the Department;
            (5) identify any shortfalls in resources, data, training, 
        policy, or law that could be an impediment to implementing the 
        metrics;
            (6) revise leading and lagging indicators associated with 
        each such metric to provide a benchmark against which to assess 
        progress;
            (7) improve visualization of and comprehension for the use 
        of the metrics in data-driven decision-making, including 
        adoption of new policies and training as needed;
            (8) incorporate the ability to aggregate and disaggregate 
        data to provide the ability to focus on functional, component-
        level metrics; and
            (9) increase standardization of the use and collection of 
        business health metrics across the Department.
    (c) Additional Support.--In developing the metrics required by 
subsection (a), the Director may leverage support from an existing 
federally funded research and development center or university-
affiliated research center.
    (d) Briefing Required.--Not later than January 30, 2025, the 
Director shall brief the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
the House of Representatives on the development of the metrics required 
by subsection (a).

SEC. 927. INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT OF DEFENSE BUSINESS ENTERPRISE 
              ARCHITECTURE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall select a federally 
funded research and development center or a university affiliated 
research center to conduct an independent assessment of the defense 
business enterprise architecture developed under section 2222(e) of 
title 10, United States Code.
    (b) Elements.--The assessment required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following elements:
            (1) An assessment of the effectiveness of the defense 
        business enterprise architecture as of the date of the 
        enactment of this Act in providing an adequate and useful 
        framework for planning, managing, and integrating the business 
        systems of the Department of Defense.
            (2) A comparison of the defense business enterprise 
        architecture with similar models in use by other government 
        agencies in the United States, foreign governments, and major 
        commercial entities, including an assessment of any lessons 
        from such models that might be applied to the defense business 
        enterprise architecture.
            (3) An assessment of the adequacy of the defense business 
        enterprise architecture in informing business process 
        reengineering and being sufficiently responsive to changes in 
        business processes over time.
            (4) An identification of any shortfalls or implementation 
        challenges in the utility of the defense business enterprise 
        architecture.
            (5) Recommendations for replacement of the existing defense 
        business enterprise architecture or for modifications to the 
        existing architecture to make that architecture and the process 
        for updating that architecture more effective and responsive to 
        the business process needs of the Department.
    (c) Interim Briefing.--Not later than April 1, 2024, the Secretary 
shall brief the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives on the status of the assessment required by 
subsection (a).
    (d) Final Report.--Not later than January 30, 2025, the Secretary 
shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives a report on the results of the assessment 
required by subsection (a).

SEC. 928. LIMITATION ON ESTABLISHMENT OF NEW DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND 
              INCLUSION POSITIONS; HIRING FREEZE.

    (a) In General.--During the period described in subsection (b), the 
Secretary of Defense may not--
            (1) establish any new positions within the Department of 
        Defense with responsibility for matters relating to diversity, 
        equity, and inclusion; or
            (2) fill any vacancies in positions in the Department with 
        responsibility for such matters.
    (b) Period Described.--The period described in this subsection is 
the period--
            (1) beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act; and
            (2) ending on the date on which the Comptroller General of 
        the United States submits to Congress the review of the 
        Department of Defense diversity, equity, and inclusion 
        workforce required by the report of the Committee on Armed 
        Services of the Senate accompanying the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024.

                      TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     Subtitle A--Financial Matters

SEC. 1001. GENERAL TRANSFER AUTHORITY.

    (a) Authority To Transfer Authorizations.--
            (1) Authority.--Upon determination by the Secretary of 
        Defense that such action is necessary in the national interest, 
        the Secretary may transfer amounts of authorizations made 
        available to the Department of Defense in this division for 
        fiscal year 2024 between any such authorizations for that 
        fiscal year (or any subdivisions thereof). Amounts of 
        authorizations so transferred shall be merged with and be 
        available for the same purposes as the authorization to which 
        transferred.
            (2) Limitation.--Except as provided in paragraph (3), the 
        total amount of authorizations that the Secretary may transfer 
        under the authority of this section may not exceed 
        $6,000,000,000.
            (3) Exception for transfers between military personnel 
        authorizations.--A transfer of funds between military personnel 
        authorizations under title IV shall not be counted toward the 
        dollar limitation in paragraph (2).
    (b) Limitations.--The authority provided by subsection (a) to 
transfer authorizations--
            (1) may only be used to provide authority for items that 
        have a higher priority than the items from which authority is 
        transferred; and
            (2) may not be used to provide authority for an item that 
        has been denied authorization by Congress.
    (c) Effect on Authorization Amounts.--A transfer made from one 
account to another under the authority of this section shall be deemed 
to increase the amount authorized for the account to which the amount 
is transferred by an amount equal to the amount transferred.
    (d) Notice to Congress.--The Secretary shall promptly notify 
Congress of each transfer made under subsection (a).

SEC. 1002. ANNUAL REPORT ON BUDGET PRIORITIZATION BY SECRETARY OF 
              DEFENSE AND MILITARY DEPARTMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 9 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 222d the following new section:
``Sec. 222e. Programs, projects, and activities that were internally 
              reduced or eliminated in the submission of the 
              President's budget: annual report
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through the 
Secretaries of the military departments and the officers of Department 
of Defense agencies and offices not under the control of a Secretary of 
a military department, shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees each year, not later than 15 days after the submission of 
the budget of the President for the fiscal year beginning in such year 
under section 1105(a) of title 31, a report that includes organized 
tabulations of programs, projects, and activities the total 
obligational authority for which was reduced or eliminated in the 
current budget year proposal compared to the prior-year projection for 
the current year.
    ``(b) Elements.--The tabulations required under subsection (a) 
shall include, for each program, project, or activity that was 
internally reduced or eliminated, the following elements:
            ``(1) Whether the program, project, or activity was 
        eliminated or reduced and which fiscal year it was eliminated 
        or reduced in.
            ``(2) Appropriations sub-account.
            ``(3) The appropriate program element, line item number, or 
        sub-activity group.
            ``(4) Program, project, or activity name.
            ``(5) Prior year enacted appropriation.
            ``(6) Prior year projected current year budget.
            ``(7) Current year budget request.
            ``(8) If applicable, the amount reduced or saved by the 
        current year elimination or reduction over the future years 
        defense plan.
            ``(9) The rationale for reduction or elimination.
    ``(c) Form.--The report required under subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in machine readable, electronic form.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 9 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating 
to section 222d the following new item:

``222e. Programs, projects, and activities that were internally reduced 
                            or eliminated in the submission of the 
                            President's budget: annual report.''.

SEC. 1003. ADDITIONAL REPORTING REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO UNFUNDED 
              PRIORITIES.

    Section 222a(c)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(E) For each priority--
                            ``(i) the requirement that will be 
                        addressed which is not in the base budget 
                        request;
                            ``(ii) the reason why the priority was not 
                        included in the base budget request;
                            ``(iii) a description of previous funding 
                        to address the requirement;
                            ``(iv) an assessment of the impact of the 
                        priority on the future years defense plan.''.

SEC. 1004. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON NEED FOR EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL 
              APPROPRIATIONS.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) section 101 of the Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2023 
        (Public Law 118-5) imposes limits on discretionary spending in 
        the defense and nondefense categories;
            (2) if those spending limits for either category are 
        breached, then across-the-board sequestration cuts are 
        triggered on that category to eliminate the breach;
            (3) the enactment of authorization and appropriations 
        legislation for the Department of Defense will provide inherent 
        cost savings that continuing resolutions do not provide;
            (4) there are growing national security concerns that 
        require additional funds beyond the revised security spending 
        limit, to include continued support to the Ukrainian armed 
        forces, additional munitions production, additional large 
        surface combatants, shipbuilding industrial base modernization 
        investments, submarine industrial base and supply chain 
        management, additional production of wheeled and tracked combat 
        vehicles, and emergent capabilities and exercises in the United 
        States Indo-Pacific Command;
            (5) as the Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer stated on 
        June 1, 2023, ``This debt ceiling deal does nothing to limit 
        the Senate's ability to appropriate emergency/supplemental 
        funds to ensure our military capabilities are sufficient to 
        deter China, Russia, and our other adversaries and respond to 
        ongoing and growing national security threats, including 
        Russia's ongoing war of aggression against Ukraine, our ongoing 
        competition with China and its growing threat to Taiwan, 
        Iranian threats to American interests and those of our partners 
        in the Middle East, or any other emerging security crisis; nor 
        does this debt ceiling deal limit the Senate's ability to 
        appropriate emergency/supplemental funds to respond to various 
        national issues, such as disaster relief, or combating the 
        fentanyl crisis, or other issues of national importance.''; and
            (6) the President should expeditiously send emergency 
        funding requests to the Senate for consideration so that those 
        needs can receive sufficient and additional funds.

                   Subtitle B--Counterdrug Activities

SEC. 1011. DISRUPTION OF FENTANYL TRAFFICKING.

    (a) Sense of Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) fentanyl trafficking across the borders of the United 
        States, and the consequences of that trafficking, constitute an 
        unprecedented, nontraditional, and long-term threat to the 
        national security of the United States;
            (2) transnational criminal organizations have established 
        effective control over significant areas within Mexico, which 
        has enabled the development of fentanyl production and 
        trafficking infrastructure;
            (3) combating fentanyl trafficking demands--
                    (A) improved interagency command, control, 
                communications, and intelligence sharing to enhance the 
                effectiveness of the interdiction of fentanyl at the 
                borders of the United States; and
                    (B) whole-of-government solutions comprised of an 
                integrated and synchronized interagency organizational 
                construct committed to dismantling the process of 
                trafficking fentanyl from chemical precursor to 
                production to delivery in the United States and 
                enabling partner nations to do the same;
            (4) it is within the national security interest of the 
        United States for Federal, State, and local law enforcement 
        agencies, the Department of Defense, the Department of State, 
        other counter-drug agencies, and stakeholders to effectively 
        communicate and that the failure of effective communication 
        affects the prevention, interdiction, and prosecution of 
        fentanyl trafficking and distribution into and within the 
        United States; and
            (5) the United States must partner with Mexico and Canada 
        to combat fentanyl trafficking through institution building, 
        the dismantling of cartels, and seizures of fentanyl in Mexico, 
        Canada, and intrastate transit zones.
    (b) Development of Strategy to Counter Fentanyl Trafficking and 
Report.--
            (1) Strategy.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
                Defense, in coordination with other Federal agencies as 
                the Secretary considers appropriate, shall develop and 
                submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
                strategy to use existing authorities, including the 
                authorities under section 124 of title 10, United 
                States Code, as appropriate, to target, disrupt, or 
                degrade threats to the national security of the United 
                States caused or exacerbated by fentanyl trafficking.
                    (B) Contents.--The strategy required by 
                subparagraph (A) shall outline how the Secretary of 
                Defense will--
                            (i) leverage existing authorities regarding 
                        counterdrug and counter-transnational organized 
                        crime activities with a counter-fentanyl nexus 
                        to detect and monitor activities related to 
                        fentanyl trafficking;
                            (ii) support operations to counter fentanyl 
                        trafficking carried out by other Federal 
                        agencies, State, Tribal, and local law 
                        enforcement agencies, or foreign security 
                        forces;
                            (iii) coordinate efforts of the Department 
                        of Defense for the detection and monitoring of 
                        aerial, maritime, and surface traffic suspected 
                        of carrying fentanyl bound for the United 
                        States, including efforts to unify the use of 
                        technology, surveillance, and related resources 
                        across air, land, and maritime domains to 
                        counter fentanyl trafficking, including with 
                        respect to data collection, data processing, 
                        and integrating sensors across such domains;
                            (iv) provide military-unique capabilities 
                        to support activities by the United States 
                        Government and foreign security forces to 
                        detect and monitor the trafficking of fentanyl 
                        and precursor chemicals used in fentanyl 
                        production, consistent with section 284(b)(10) 
                        of title 10, United States Code;
                            (v) leverage existing counterdrug and 
                        counter-transnational organized crime programs 
                        of the Department to counter fentanyl 
                        trafficking;
                            (vi) assess existing training programs of 
                        the Department and provide training for 
                        Federal, State, Tribal, and local law 
                        enforcement agencies conducted by special 
                        operations forces to counter fentanyl 
                        trafficking, consistent with section 284(b) of 
                        title 10, United States Code;
                            (vii) engage with foreign security forces 
                        to ensure the counterdrug and counter-
                        transnational organized crime programs of the 
                        Department--
                                    (I) support efforts to counter 
                                fentanyl trafficking; and
                                    (II) build capacity to interdict 
                                fentanyl in foreign countries, 
                                including programs to train security 
                                forces in partner countries to counter 
                                fentanyl trafficking, including 
                                countering illicit flows of fentanyl 
                                precursors, consistent with sections 
                                284(c) and 333 of title 10, United 
                                States Code;
                            (viii) use the North American Defense 
                        Ministerial and the bilateral defense working 
                        groups and bilateral military cooperation round 
                        tables with Canada and Mexico to increase 
                        domain awareness to detect and monitor fentanyl 
                        trafficking; and
                            (ix) evaluate existing policies, 
                        procedures, processes, and resources that 
                        affect the ability of the Department to counter 
                        fentanyl trafficking consistent with existing 
                        counterdrug and counter-transnational organized 
                        crime authorities.
                    (C) Form.--The strategy required by subparagraph 
                (A) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may 
                include a classified annex.
                    (D) Briefing.--Not later than 45 days after the 
                submission of the strategy required by subparagraph 
                (A), the Secretary shall provide to the appropriate 
                congressional committees a briefing on the strategy and 
                plans for its implementation.
            (2) Report on law enforcement reimbursement.--The Secretary 
        of Defense shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
        committees a report on--
                    (A) any goods or services provided under section 
                1535 of title 31, United States Code (commonly known as 
                the ``Economy Act''), during the period beginning on 
                January 1, 2010, and ending on the date on which the 
                report is submitted, by the Department of Defense to 
                Federal civilian law enforcement agencies for 
                counterdrug and counter-transnational organized crime 
                operations on the southern border of the United States; 
                and
                    (B) any payments made for such goods or services 
                under such section during such period.
    (c) Cooperation With Mexico.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall seek to 
        enhance cooperation with defense officials of the Government of 
        Mexico to target, disrupt, and degrade transnational criminal 
        organizations within Mexico that traffic fentanyl.
            (2) Report on enhanced security cooperation.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
                Defense shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
                committees a report on efforts to enhance cooperation 
                with defense officials of the Government of Mexico 
                specified in paragraph (1).
                    (B) Contents.--The report required by subparagraph 
                (A) shall include--
                            (i) an assessment of the impact of the 
                        efforts to enhance cooperation described in 
                        paragraph (1) on targeting, disrupting, and 
                        degrading fentanyl trafficking;
                            (ii) a description of limitations on such 
                        efforts, including limitations imposed by the 
                        Government of Mexico;
                            (iii) recommendations by the Secretary on 
                        actions to further improve cooperation with 
                        defense officials of the Government of Mexico;
                            (iv) recommendations by the Secretary on 
                        actions of the Department of Defense to further 
                        improve the capabilities of the Government of 
                        Mexico to target, disrupt, and degrade fentanyl 
                        trafficking; and
                            (v) any other matter the Secretary 
                        considers relevant.
                    (C) Form.--The report required by subparagraph (A) 
                may be submitted in unclassified form but shall include 
                a classified annex.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; 
                and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) Fentanyl.--The term ``fentanyl'' means fentanyl and any 
        fentanyl-related substance.
            (3) Fentanyl-related substance.--The term ``fentanyl-
        related substance''--
                    (A) means any substance that is structurally 
                related to fentanyl by 1 or more modifications of--
                            (i) replacement of the phenyl portion of 
                        the phenethyl group by any monocycle, whether 
                        or not further substituted in or on the 
                        monocycle;
                            (ii) substitution in or on the phenethyl 
                        group with alkyl, alkenyl, alkoxyl, hydroxyl, 
                        halo, haloalkyl, amino, or nitro groups;
                            (iii) substitution in or on the piperidine 
                        ring with alkyl, alkenyl, alkoxyl, ester, 
                        ether, hydroxyl, halo, haloalkyl, amino, or 
                        nitro groups;
                            (iv) replacement of the aniline ring with 
                        any aromatic monocycle whether or not further 
                        substituted in or on the aromatic monocycle; 
                        and
                            (v) replacement of the N-propionyl group 
                        with another acyl group; and
                    (B) does not include a substance described in 
                subparagraph (A) that is--
                            (i) controlled by action of the Attorney 
                        General pursuant to section 201 of the 
                        Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 811);
                            (ii) expressly listed in Schedule I of 
                        section 202(c) of that Act (21 U.S.C. 812) or 
                        another schedule by a statutory provision; or
                            (iii) removed from Schedule I, or 
                        rescheduled to another schedule, pursuant to 
                        section 201(k) of that Act (21 U.S.C. 811(k)).
            (4) Illegal means.--The term ``illegal means'' includes the 
        trafficking of money, human trafficking, illicit financial 
        flows, illegal trade in natural resources and wildlife, trade 
        in illegal drugs and weapons, and other forms of illegal means 
        determined by the Secretary of Defense.
            (5) Security cooperation program.--The term ``security 
        cooperation program'' has the meaning given that term in 
        section 301 of title 10, United States Code.
            (6) Transnational criminal organization.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``transnational criminal 
                organization'' means a group, network, and associated 
                individuals who operate transnationally for the purpose 
                of obtaining power, influence, or monetary or 
                commercial gain, wholly or in part by illegal means, 
                while advancing their activities through a pattern of 
                crime, corruption, or violence and protecting their 
                illegal activities through a transnational 
                organizational structure and the exploitation of public 
                corruption or transnational logistics, financial, or 
                communication mechanisms.
                    (B) Additional organizations.--The term 
                ``transnational criminal organization'' includes any 
                transnational criminal organization identified in the 
                most recent Drug Threat Assessment of the Drug 
                Enforcement Agency.

SEC. 1012. ENHANCED SUPPORT FOR COUNTERDRUG ACTIVITIES AND ACTIVITIES 
              TO COUNTER TRANSNATIONAL ORGANIZED CRIME.

    Section 284(b)(9) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``linguist and intelligence analysis'' and inserting 
``linguist, intelligence analysis, and planning''.

SEC. 1013. MODIFICATION OF SUPPORT FOR COUNTERDRUG ACTIVITIES AND 
              ACTIVITIES TO COUNTER TRANSNATIONAL ORGANIZED CRIME: 
              INCREASE IN CAP FOR SMALL SCALE CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.

    Section 284(i)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``$750,000'' and inserting ``$1,500,000''.

SEC. 1014. BUILDING THE CAPACITY OF ARMED FORCES OF MEXICO TO COUNTER 
              THE THREAT POSED BY TRANSNATIONAL CRIMINAL ORGANIZATIONS.

    (a) Pilot Program.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
the Secretary of State, shall establish a pilot program to assess the 
feasibility and advisability of building the capacity of armed forces 
of Mexico in the United States on goals, jointly agreed to by the 
Governments of the United States and Mexico, to counter the threat 
posed by transnational criminal organizations, including through--
            (1) operations designed, at least in part, by the United 
        States, to counter that threat; and
            (2) in consultation with the appropriate civilian 
        government agencies specializing in countering transnational 
        criminal organizations--
                    (A) joint network analysis;
                    (B) counter threat financing;
                    (C) counter illicit trafficking (including 
                narcotics, weapons, and human trafficking, and illicit 
                trafficking in natural resources); and
                    (D) assessments of key nodes of activity of 
                transnational criminal organizations.
    (b) Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        submit to the appropriate congressional committees a plan for 
        implementing the pilot program required by subsection (a) over 
        a period of five years, including the costs of administering 
        the program during such period.
            (2) Definition of appropriate congressional committees.--In 
        this subsection, the term ``appropriate congressional 
        committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Foreign Relations, and the Committee on 
                Appropriations of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations 
                of the House of Representatives.

                       Subtitle C--Naval Vessels

SEC. 1021. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE USED VESSELS UNDER THE 
              NATIONAL DEFENSE SEALIFT FUND.

    Section 2218(f)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking subparagraphs (C), (E) and (G); and
            (2) by redesignating subparagraphs (D) and (F) as 
        subparagraphs (C) and (D), respectively.

SEC. 1022. AMPHIBIOUS WARSHIP FORCE AVAILABILITY.

    Section 8062 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (e)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(4) the Navy adjusts scheduled maintenance and repair 
        actions to maintain a minimum of 24 amphibious warfare ships 
        operationally available for worldwide deployment.''; and
            (2) by redesignating the second subsection (g) (defining 
        amphibious warfare ship) as subsection (h).

SEC. 1023. PROHIBITION ON RETIREMENT OF CERTAIN NAVAL VESSELS.

    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for 
fiscal year 2024 may be obligated or expended to retire, prepare to 
retire, or place in storage any of the following naval vessels:
            (1) USS Germantown (LSD 42).
            (2) USS Gunston Hall (LSD 44).
            (3) USS Tortuga (LSD 46).
            (4) USS Shiloh (CG 67).

SEC. 1024. REPORT ON THE POTENTIAL FOR AN ARMY AND NAVY JOINT EFFORT 
              FOR WATERCRAFT VESSELS.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than February 29, 2024, the 
Secretary of the Navy, in coordination with the Secretary of the Army, 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
feasibility of conducting a joint Army and Navy effort to develop and 
field a family of watercraft vessels to support the implementation of 
the Marine Corps concept of expeditionary advanced base operations and 
Army operations in maritime environments.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
an assessment of whether a shared base platform could meet requirements 
of the Department of the Navy and the Department of the Army, and, if 
so, an assessment of the benefits and challenges of procuring a 
technical data package to allow simultaneous construction of such 
platform by multiple builders and using block buy authorities.

                      Subtitle D--Counterterrorism

SEC. 1031. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO CLOSE OR 
              RELINQUISH CONTROL OF UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, 
              GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA.

    Section 1036 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1551), as most recently amended 
by section 1034 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263), is further amended by 
striking ``2023'' and inserting ``2024''.

SEC. 1032. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR TRANSFER OR 
              RELEASE OF INDIVIDUALS DETAINED AT UNITED STATES NAVAL 
              STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA, TO THE UNITED STATES.

    Section 1033 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1953), as most 
recently amended by section 1031 of the James M. Inhofe National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263), is 
further amended by striking ``December 31, 2023'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2024''.

SEC. 1033. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO CONSTRUCT OR 
              MODIFY FACILITIES IN THE UNITED STATES TO HOUSE DETAINEES 
              TRANSFERRED FROM UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO 
              BAY, CUBA.

    Section 1034(a) of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 
1954), as most recently amended by section 1032 of the James M. Inhofe 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 
117-263), is further amended by striking ``December 31, 2023'' and 
inserting ``December 31, 2024''.

SEC. 1034. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR TRANSFER OR 
              RELEASE OF INDIVIDUALS DETAINED AT UNITED STATES NAVAL 
              STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA, TO CERTAIN COUNTRIES.

    Section 1035 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1954), as most 
recently amended by section 1033 of the James M. Inhofe National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263), is 
further amended by striking ``December 31, 2023'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2024''.

         Subtitle E--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

SEC. 1041. EXTENSION OF ADMISSION TO GUAM OR THE COMMONWEALTH OF THE 
              NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS FOR CERTAIN NONIMMIGRANT H-2B 
              WORKERS.

    Section 6(b)(1)(B) of the Joint Resolution entitled ``A Joint 
Resolution to approve the `Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the 
Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union with the United States of 
America', and for other purposes'', approved March 24, 1976 (48 U.S.C. 
1806(b)(1)(B)), is amended, in the matter preceding clause (i), by 
striking ``December 31, 2023'' and inserting ``December 31, 2029''.

SEC. 1042. AUTHORITY TO INCLUDE FUNDING REQUESTS FOR THE CHEMICAL AND 
              BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE PROGRAM IN BUDGET ACCOUNTS OF MILITARY 
              DEPARTMENTS.

    Section 1701(d)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 1994 (50 U.S.C. 1522(d)(2)) is amended by striking ``may 
not be included in the budget accounts'' and inserting ``may be 
included in the budget accounts''.

SEC. 1043. UNFAVORABLE SECURITY CLEARANCE ELIGIBILITY DETERMINATIONS 
              AND APPEALS.

    (a) Administrative Due Process Procedures for Covered Individuals 
Seeking or Having Access to Classified Information or Sensitive 
Compartment Information.--
            (1) In general.--Each head of a component of the Department 
        of Defense shall provide to each covered individual described 
        in paragraph (2) of such component seeking or having access to 
        classified information or sensitive compartment information 
        with administrative due process procedures described in 
        paragraph (3) through the Defense Office of Hearings and 
        Appeals.
            (2) Covered individual described.--A covered individual 
        described in this paragraph is a member of the Armed Forces, a 
        civilian employee employed by a component of the Department of 
        Defense, or a contractor employee described in Department of 
        Defense Manual 5220.22, Volume 2 (relating to National 
        Industrial Security Program: Industrial Security Procedures for 
        Government Activities), or successor manual.
            (3) Administrative due process procedures described.--The 
        administrative due process procedures described in this 
        paragraph are the administrative due process procedures 
        described in Department of Defense Directive 5220.6 (relating 
        to Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
        Program), or successor directive, and Executive Order 10865 (50 
        U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to safeguarding classified 
        information within industry).
    (b) Hearings, Appeals, and Final Denials and Revocations of 
Security Clearance Eligibility.--In order to simplify, centralize, and 
unify the administrative processes for unfavorable security clearance 
eligibility determinations for covered individuals described in 
subsection (a)(2), the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that all 
hearings, appeals, and final denials and revocations of security 
clearance eligibility are performed by the Defense Office of Hearings 
and Appeals with administrative due process procedures.
    (c) Updates to Department of Defense Manuals.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall update Department of Defense Manual 5200.02 (relating to 
procedures for Department of Defense Personnel Security Program) and 
Department of Defense Manual 5220.22, Volume 2 (relating to National 
Industrial Security Program: Industrial Security Procedures for 
Government Activities) to conform with the requirements of subsections 
(a) and (b).
    (d) Authority of Director of Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals 
to Render Eligibility Determinations for Access to Classified 
Information and Sensitive Compartmented Information.--The Director of 
the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals may render eligibility 
determinations for access to classified information and sensitive 
compartmented information pursuant to procedures and guidelines that 
the Director shall issue in consultation with the Director of National 
Intelligence.
    (e) Dissemination of Security Relevant Information.--
            (1) Request for sharing required.--In a case in which a 
        contractor or civilian employee of the Federal Government 
        holding an active security clearance is seeking to transfer 
        that clearance for a new position in the Department of Defense 
        and in which an agency or department of the Federal Government 
        possesses security relevant information about that clearance 
        holder that is related to eligibility for access to classified 
        information and makes known the existence of such security 
        relevant information in the commonly accessible security 
        clearance databases of the Federal Government, but without 
        taking any action to suspend or revoke that clearance holder's 
        security clearance, the Department of Defense component 
        considering the transfer of a clearance shall promptly make a 
        request to receive the security relevant information from the 
        agency or department in possession of such information.
            (2) Failure to share.--In a case in which an agency or 
        department of the Federal Government receives a request to 
        share security relevant information about a clearance holder 
        pursuant to paragraph (1) but fails to do so within 30 days of 
        the date on which the request is made, such failure shall 
        trigger procedural and substantive due process rights, 
        established for the purposes of carrying out this section, for 
        the clearance holder to challenge the security relevant 
        information as if the information were the equivalent of a 
        suspension, denial, or revocation of the underlying clearance.
    (f) Protections.--Members of the Armed Forces and civilian 
employees of the Department of Defense may not be suspended without pay 
because a security clearance is suspended or revoked prior to the 
conclusion of any appeal process to enable such members and employee to 
support themselves during an appeal process and to support themselves 
without resigning from Government employment and thereby losing 
standing to appeal the suspension or revocation of access to classified 
information.
    (g) Effective Date; Applicability.--
            (1) Effective date.--This section shall take effect on the 
        earlier of--
                    (A) the date on which the General Counsel of the 
                Department of Defense certifies to the Committee on 
                Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed 
                Services of the House of Representatives that the 
                Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals is prepared for 
                the provisions of this section to take effect; or
                    (B) September 30, 2024.
            (2) Applicability.--This section shall apply to revocations 
        of eligibility to access classified information or sensitive 
        compartmented information that occur on or after the date on 
        which this section takes effect pursuant to paragraph (1).
    (h) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to diminish or otherwise affect the authority of the head of 
a component of the Department to suspend access to classified 
information or a special access program, including sensitive 
compartmented information, in exigent circumstances, should the head 
determine that continued access of a covered individual is inconsistent 
with protecting the national security of the United States.

SEC. 1044. ASSISTANCE IN SUPPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ACCOUNTING 
              FOR MISSING UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT PERSONNEL.

    (a) In General.--Section 408 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``Equipment and 
        training of foreign personnel to assist in'' and inserting 
        ``Assistance in support of'';
            (2) in subsection (b), by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraph:
            ``(5) Funds.'';
            (3) by striking subsections (d) and (f);
            (4) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (d); and
            (5) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Annual Report.--Not later than December 31 of each year, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on the assistance provided under this section 
during the preceding fiscal year.''.
    (b) Table of Sections Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
beginning of chapter 20 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking the item relating to section 408 and inserting the following 
new item:

``408. Assistance in support of Department of Defense accounting for 
                            missing United States Government 
                            personnel.''.

SEC. 1045. IMPLEMENTATION OF ARRANGEMENTS TO BUILD TRANSPARENCY, 
              CONFIDENCE, AND SECURITY.

    Section 2241 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Implementation of Vienna Document 2011.--Amounts appropriated 
for operation and maintenance may be used by the Secretary of Defense 
for travel, transportation, and subsistence expenses for meetings and 
demonstrations hosted by the Department of Defense for the 
implementation of the Vienna Document 2011 on Confidence and Security-
Building Measures.''.

SEC. 1046. ACCESS TO AND USE OF MILITARY POST OFFICES BY UNITED STATES 
              CITIZENS EMPLOYED OVERSEAS BY THE NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY 
              ORGANIZATION WHO PERFORM FUNCTIONS IN SUPPORT OF MILITARY 
              OPERATIONS OF THE ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Requirement to Authorize Use of Post Office.--Section 406 of 
title 39, United States Code, is amended by striking ``may authorize 
the use'' and inserting ``shall authorize the use''.
    (b) Briefing Requirement.--Not later than March 1, 2024, the 
Secretary of Defense shall brief the Committees on Armed Services of 
the Senate and House of Representatives on the revision of the 
Financial Management Regulation to authorize individuals under 
subparagraph (A) of section 406(c)(1) of title 39, United States Code, 
as amended by subsection (a), to utilize the authority provided under 
such subparagraph. If there is a determination that this authority is 
not feasible for a legal or financial reason, the Secretary shall 
include the background for those determinations in the briefing.

SEC. 1047. REMOVAL OF TIME LIMITATIONS OF TEMPORARY PROTECTION AND 
              AUTHORIZATION OF REIMBURSEMENT FOR SECURITY SERVICES AND 
              EQUIPMENT FOR FORMER OR RETIRED DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              PERSONNEL.

    (a) Removal of Time Limitations.--Section 714(b) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph (7);
            (2) in paragraph (5)--
                    (A) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as paragraph 
                (6) and moving such paragraph, as so redesignated, two 
                ems to the left; and
                    (B) by striking ``Duration of protection.--'' and 
                all that follows through the period at the end of 
                subparagraph (B) and inserting ``Duration of 
                protection.--The Secretary of Defense shall require 
                periodic reviews, not less than once every six months, 
                of the duration of protection provided to individuals 
                under this subsection.'';
            (3) in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (7), as redesignated 
        by paragraph (1) of this subsection, by striking ``and of each 
        determination under paragraph (5)(B) to extend such protection 
        and security''.
    (b) Authorization of Reimbursement or Acquisition of Security 
Services.--Section 714 of title 10, United States Code, is further 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Reimbursement.--The Secretary of Defense may reimburse a 
former or retired official who faces serious and credible threats 
arising from duties performed while employed by the Department for 
security services and equipment procured at the personal expense of the 
official, not to exceed an aggregate of $15,000,000 in any fiscal year 
for all former and retired officials authorized by the Secretary of 
Defense for such reimbursement.''.

SEC. 1048. ANNUAL DEFENSE POW/MIA ACCOUNTING AGENCY (DPAA) CAPABILITIES 
              REQUIRED TO EXPAND ACCOUNTING FOR PERSONS MISSING FROM 
              DESIGNATED PAST CONFLICTS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than March 1, 2024, and annually 
thereafter, the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency (DPAA) shall post on 
a publicly available internet website a list of capabilities required 
to expand accounting for persons missing from designated past conflicts 
and provide a briefing to Congress on those capabilities.
    (b) Authority to Enter Into Agreements.--The Defense POW/MIA 
Accounting Agency may enter into agreements with universities or 
research organizations to provide additional capabilities for 
specialized missions or research requirements.

SEC. 1049. ACCESS TO COMMISSARY AND EXCHANGE PRIVILEGES FOR REMARRIED 
              SPOUSES.

    (a) Benefits.--Section 1062 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Secretary of Defense'' and inserting 
        the following:
    ``(a) Certain Unremarried Former Spouses.--The Secretary of 
Defense'';
            (2) by striking ``commissary and exchange privileges'' and 
        inserting ``use commissary stores and MWR retail facilities'';
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(b) Certain Remarried Surviving Spouses.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to provide 
that a surviving spouse of a deceased member of the armed forces, 
regardless of the marital status of the surviving spouse, is entitled 
to use commissary stores and MWR retail facilities to the same extent 
and on the same basis as an unremarried surviving spouse of a member of 
the uniformed services.''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) MWR Retail Facilities Defined.--In this section, the term 
`MWR retail facilities' has the meaning given that term in section 
1063(e) of this title.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) Section heading.--The heading of section 1062 of title 
        10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 1062. Certain former spouses and surviving spouses''.
            (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 54 of title 10, United States Code, is 
        amended by striking the item relating to section 1062 and 
        inserting the following new item:

``1062. Certain former spouses and surviving spouses.''.
    (c) Regulations.--The Secretary of Defense shall publish the 
regulations required under section 1062(b) of title 10, United States 
Code, as added by subsection (a)(3), by not later than October 1, 2025.

                    Subtitle F--Studies and Reports

SEC. 1051. ANNUAL REPORT AND BRIEFING ON IMPLEMENTATION OF FORCE DESIGN 
              2030.

    (a) In General.--Not later than March 31, 2024, and annually 
thereafter through March 31, 2030, the Commandant of the Marine Corps 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report detailing 
the programmatic choices made to implement Force Design 2030, including 
both new developmental and fielded capabilities, as well as 
capabilities and capacity divested to accelerate implementation of 
Force Design 2030.
    (b) Briefing Requirement.--Not later than September 30, 2024, and 
annually thereafter through September 30, 2030, the Commandant of the 
Marine Corps shall provide a briefing on the elements described under 
subsection (c).
    (c) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) and 
briefing required under subsection (b) shall include the following 
elements:
            (1) An assessment of changes in the National Defense 
        Strategy, Defense Planning Guidance, Joint Warfighting Concept 
        (and associated Concept Required Capabilities), and other 
        planning processes that informed Force Design 2030.
            (2) An inventory and assessment of Force Design-related 
        exercises and experimentation beginning in fiscal year 2020, 
        including which capabilities were involved and the extent to 
        which such exercises and experiments validated or militated 
        against proposed capability investments.
            (3) An inventory of divestments of capability or capacity, 
        whether force structure or equipment, starting in fiscal year 
        2020, including--
                    (A) a timeline of the progress of each divestment;
                    (B) the type of force structure or equipment 
                divested or reduced;
                    (C) the percentage of force structure or equipment 
                divested or reduced, including any equipment entered 
                into inventory management or another form of storage;
                    (D) the rationale and context behind such 
                divestment;
                    (E) an identification of whether such divestment 
                affects the Marine Corps' ability to meet the 
                requirements of Global Force Management process and the 
                operational plans, including an explanation of how the 
                Marine Corps plans to mitigate the loss of such 
                capability or capacity if the divestment affects the 
                Marine Corps' ability to meet the requirements of the 
                Global Force Management process and the operational 
                plans, including through new investments, additional 
                joint planning and training, or other methods; and
                    (F) an assessment of the Marine Corps' recruitment 
                and retention actual and projected percentages starting 
                in fiscal year 2020.
            (4) An inventory of extant or planned investments as a part 
        of Force Design 2030, disaggregated by integrated air and 
        missile defense, littoral mobility and maneuver, sea denial, 
        and reconnaissance and counter-reconnaissance forces, 
        including--
                    (A) capability name;
                    (B) capability purpose and context;
                    (C) capability being replaced (or not applicable);
                    (D) date of initial operational capability;
                    (E) date of full operational capability;
                    (F) deliveries of units by year; and
                    (G) approved acquisition objective or similar 
                inventory objective.
            (5) A description of the amphibious warfare ship and 
        maritime mobility requirements the Marine Corps submitted to 
        the Department of the Navy in support of the Marine Corps 
        organization and concepts under Force Design 2030 and its 
        statutory requirements, including a detailed statement of the 
        planning assumptions about readiness of amphibious warfare 
        ships and maritime mobility platforms that were used in 
        developing the requirements.
            (6) An assessment of how the capability investments 
        described in paragraph (4) contribute to joint force efficacy 
        in new ways, including through support of other military 
        services.
            (7) An assessment of the ability of the Marine Corps to 
        generate required force elements for the Immediate Ready Force 
        and the Contingency Ready Force over the previous two fiscal 
        years and the expected ability to generate forces for the next 
        two fiscal years.
            (8) An assessment of Marine Corps force structure and the 
        readiness of Marine Expeditionary Units compared to 
        availability of amphibious ships comprising an Amphibious Ready 
        Group over the previous two fiscal years and the expected 
        availability for the next two fiscal years.
            (9) An assessment by the Marine Corps of its compliance 
        with the statutory organization prescribed in section 8063 of 
        title 10, United States Code, that ``[t]he Marine Corps, within 
        the Department of the Navy, shall be so organized as to include 
        not less than three combat divisions and three air wings, and 
        such other land combat, aviation, and other services as may be 
        organic therein''.
            (10) An assessment by the Marine Corps of its compliance 
        with the statutory functions prescribed in section 8063 of 
        title 10, United States Code, that ``[t]he Marine Corps shall 
        be organized, trained, and equipped to provide fleet marine 
        forces of combined arms, together with supporting air 
        components, for service with the fleet in the seizure or 
        defense of advanced naval bases and for the conduct of such 
        land operations as may be essential to the prosecution of a 
        naval campaign''.

SEC. 1052. PLAN FOR CONVERSION OF JOINT TASK FORCE NORTH INTO JOINT 
              INTERAGENCY TASK FORCE NORTH.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with 
the head of any relevant Federal department or agency and acting 
through the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a plan for converting the Joint Task 
Force North of the United States Northern Command into a joint 
interagency task force to be known as the ``Joint Interagency Task 
Force North''.
    (b) Elements.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A description of the mission of the Joint Interagency 
        Task Force North.
            (2) A detailed description of the resources of the 
        Department of Defense, including personnel, facilities, and 
        operating costs, necessary to convert the Joint Task Force 
        North into a joint interagency task force.
            (3) An identification of--
                    (A) each relevant department and agency of the 
                United States Government the participation in the Joint 
                Interagency Task Force North of which is necessary in 
                order to enable the Joint Interagency Task Force North 
                to effectively carry out its mission; and
                    (B) the interagency arrangements necessary to 
                ensure effective participation by each such department 
                and agency.
            (4) An identification of each international liaison 
        necessary for the Joint Interagency Task Force North to 
        effectively carry out its mission.
            (5) A description of the bilateral and multilateral 
        agreements with foreign partners and regional and international 
        organizations that would support the implementation of the 
        mission of the Joint Interagency Task Force North.
            (6) A description of the relationship between the Joint 
        Interagency Task Force North and the Joint Interagency Task 
        Force South of the United States Southern Command.
            (7) A description of the relationship between the Joint 
        Interagency Task Force North and the relevant security forces 
        of the Government of Mexico and the Government of the Bahamas.
            (8) A recommendation on whether the Joint Interagency Task 
        Force North should be an enduring entity and a discussion of 
        the circumstances under which the mission of the Joint 
        Interagency Task Force North would transition to one or more 
        entities within the United States Government other than the 
        United States Northern Command.
            (9) Any recommendations for additional legal authority 
        needed for the Joint Interagency Task Force North to 
        effectively carry out its mission.
    (c) Form.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Interim Briefing.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall provide a briefing to the 
congressional defense committees on progress made in developing the 
plan required by subsection (a).

SEC. 1053. REPORT ON USE OF TACTICAL FIGHTER AIRCRAFT AND BOMBER 
              AIRCRAFT FOR DEPLOYMENTS AND HOMELAND DEFENSE MISSIONS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than May 1, 2024, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
including the results of a study on the use of tactical fighter 
aircraft and bomber aircraft for deployments and homeland defense 
missions.
    (b) Scope.--The study conducted pursuant to subsection (a) shall--
            (1) review both deployment and exercise requirements for 
        tactical fighter aircraft and bomber aircraft levied by each 
        geographic combatant command;
            (2) assess deployable forces currently available to fulfill 
        each of those requirements, and whether those forces are 
        adequate to meet the global requirements;
            (3) review any relevant tactical fighter forces or bomber 
        forces that are not considered deployable or available to meet 
        combatant command requirements, and consider whether that 
        status can or should change;
            (4) assess whether adequate consideration has been put into 
        fighter coverage of the homeland during these deployments, in 
        particular within the Alaska Area of Responsibility and the 
        Hawaii Area of Responsibility; and
            (5) assess Air Force and Navy active duty, Air National 
        Guard, and reserve land-based tactical fighter units that could 
        be considered for inclusion into homeland defense mission 
        requirements.

SEC. 1054. MODIFICATIONS OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Consolidated Budget Quarterly Report on Use of Funds.--Section 
381(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Quarterly 
        Report'' and inserting ``Semiannual Report'';
            (2) by striking ``calendar quarter'' and inserting 
        ``calendar half''; and
            (3) by striking ``such calendar quarter'' and inserting 
        ``such calendar half''.
    (b) Monthly Counterterrorism Operations Briefing.--
            (1) In general.--Section 485 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) in the section heading, by striking ``Monthly'' 
                and inserting ``Quarterly''; and
                    (B) in subsection (a), by striking ``monthly'' and 
                inserting ``quarterly''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 23 of such title is amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 485 and inserting the following 
        new item:

``485. Quarterly counterterrorism operations briefings.''.
    (c) National Security Strategy for the National Technology and 
Industrial Base.--Section 4811(a) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``The Secretary shall submit such strategy to 
Congress not later than 180 days after the date of submission of the 
national security strategy report required under section 108 of the 
National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3043).'' and inserting ``The 
Secretary shall submit such strategy to Congress as an integrated part 
of the report submitted under section 4814 of this title.''.
    (d) National Technology and Industrial Base Report and Quarterly 
Briefing.--
            (1) In general.--Section 4814 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) by amending the section heading to read as 
                follows:
``Sec. 4814. National Technology and Industrial Base: biennial 
              report'';
                    (B) by striking ``(a) Annual Report.--'';
                    (C) by striking ``March 1 of each year'' and 
                inserting ``March 1 of each odd-numbered year''; and
                    (D) by striking subsection (b).
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 382 of such title is amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 4814 and inserting the following:

``4814. National Technology and Industrial Base: biennial report.''.
            (3) Conforming amendment.--Section 858(b)(2) of the James 
        M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
        2023 (Public Law 117-263) is amended by striking subparagraph 
        (A).
    (e) Annual Military Cyberspace Operations Report.--Section 1644 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (10 U.S.C. 
394 note; Public Law 116-92) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a) in the matter preceding paragraph (1) 
        in the first sentence--
                    (A) by inserting ``effects'' after ``all named 
                military cyberspace''; and
                    (B) by striking ``, operations, cyber effects 
                enabling operations, and cyber operations conducted as 
                defensive operations'' and inserting ``conducted for 
                either offensive or defensive purposes''; and
            (2) in subsection (c), by inserting ``or cyber effects 
        operations for which Congress has otherwise been provided 
        notice'' before the period.
    (f) Independent Studies Regarding Potential Cost Savings With 
Respect to the Nuclear Security Enterprise and Force Structure.--
Section 1753 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2020 (Public Law 116-92, 133 Stat. 1852) is hereby repealed.
    (g) Extension and Modification of Authority to Provide Assistance 
to the Vetted Syrian Opposition.--Section 1231(d) of the John S. McCain 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 
115-232) is amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Quarterly'' 
        and inserting ``Semiannual''; and
            (2) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``quarterly'' and inserting ``semiannual''; 
                and
                    (B) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``90-day'' and 
                inserting ``180-day''.
    (h) Extension of Authority to Provide Assistance to Counter the 
Islamic State of Iraq and Syria.--Section 1233(e) of the John S. McCain 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 
115-232) is amended--
            (1) in the heading, by striking ``Quarterly'' and inserting 
        ``Semiannual''; and
            (2) in paragraph (1) in the second sentence of the matter 
        preceding subparagraph (A), by striking ``quarterly'' and 
        inserting ``semiannual''.
    (i) Theft, Loss, or Release of Biological Select Agents or Toxins 
Involving Department of Defense.--Section 1067(a) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 50 
U.S.C. 1528(a)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Notification.--(1) Subject to paragraph (2), not later than 
45 days after a covered report of any theft, loss, or release of a 
biological select agent or toxin involving the Department of Defense is 
filed with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention or the Animal 
and Plant Health Inspection Service, the Secretary of Defense, acting 
through the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Nuclear, Chemical, and 
Biological Defense Programs, shall provide to the congressional defense 
committees notice of such theft, loss, or release.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall provide to the congressional defense 
committees notice of a release under paragraph (1) only if the 
Secretary, acting through the Assistant Secretary, determines that the 
release is outside the barriers of secondary containment into the 
ambient air or environment or is causing occupational exposure that 
presents a threat to public safety.
    ``(3) In this subsection, the term `covered report' means a report 
filed under any of the following (or any successor regulations):
            ``(A) Section 331.19 of title 7, Code of Federal 
        Regulations.
            ``(B) Section 121.19 of title 9, Code of Federal 
        Regulations.
            ``(C) Section 73.19 of title 42, Code of Federal 
        Regulations.''.
    (j) Department of Defense Security Cooperation Workforce 
Development.--Section 1250(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2529) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``each year'' and 
        inserting ``every other year''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2) in the matter preceding subparagraph 
        (A), by striking ``for the fiscal year'' and inserting ``for 
        the fiscal years''.
    (k) Audit of Department of Defense Financial Statements.--Section 
240a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``(a) Annual Audit Required.--''; and
            (2) by striking subsection (b).
    (l) Financial Improvement and Audit Remediation Plan.--Section 
240b(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``June 30, 
                2019, and annually thereafter'' and inserting ``July 31 
                each year'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)--
                            (i) by striking clauses (vii) through (x); 
                        and
                            (ii) by redesignating clauses (xi), (xii), 
                        and (xiii) as clauses (vii), (viii), and (ix), 
                        respectively; and
                    (C) by striking subparagraph (C); and
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) by striking ``June 30'' and inserting 
                        ``July 31''; and
                            (ii) by striking the second sentence; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (b)--
                            (i) by striking ``June 30'' and inserting 
                        ``July 31''; and
                            (ii) by striking the second sentence.
    (m) Annual Reports on Funding.--Section 1009(c) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92; 10 
U.S.C. 240b note) is amended by striking ``five days'' and inserting 
``10 days''.

SEC. 1055. REPORT ON EQUIPPING CERTAIN GROUND COMBAT UNITS WITH SMALL 
              UNMANNED AERIAL SYSTEMS.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation 
with the Secretaries of the military departments, submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on equipping platoon-sized 
ground combat formations with covered small unmanned aerial systems.
    (b) Elements.--The report submitted pursuant to subsection (a) 
shall address the following:
            (1) The use of covered small unmanned aerial systems in the 
        Ukraine conflict and best practices learned.
            (2) The potential use of covered small unmanned aerial 
        systems to augment small unit tactics and lethality in the 
        ground combat forces.
            (3) Procurement challenges, legal restrictions, training 
        shortfalls, operational limitations, or other impediments to 
        fielding covered small unmanned aerial systems at the platoon 
        level.
            (4) A plan to equip platoon-sized ground combat formations 
        in the close combat force with covered small unmanned aerial 
        systems at a basis of issue deemed appropriate by the relevant 
        secretary, including a proposed timeline and fielding strategy.
            (5) A plan to equip such other ground combat units with 
        covered small unmanned aerial systems as deemed appropriate by 
        the relevant secretaries.
            (6) An assessment of appropriate mission allocation between 
        Group 3 unmanned aerial systems, Group 1 unmanned aerial 
        systems, and covered small unmanned aerial systems.
    (c) Definition of Covered Small Unmanned Aerial System.--In this 
section, the term ``covered small unmanned aerial system'' means a 
lightweight, low-cost, and commercially available unmanned aerial 
system or drone able to be quickly deployed for--
            (1) intelligence, surveillance, target acquisition, and 
        reconnaissance;
            (2) conducting offensive strikes; or
            (3) other functions as deemed appropriate by the relevant 
        secretaries.

SEC. 1056. COMPREHENSIVE ASSESSMENT OF MARINE CORPS FORCE DESIGN 2030.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall enter into a 
contract with a Federally Funded Research and Development Center to 
conduct an independent review, assessment, and analysis of the Marine 
Corps modernization initiatives. The required report shall be submitted 
to the congressional defense committees in written report form not 
later than one year after entering into the contract.
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following elements:
            (1) An assessment of changes in the National Defense 
        Strategy, Defense Planning Guidance, the Joint Warfighting 
        Concept, and other strategic documents and concepts that 
        informed Force Design modernization requirements.
            (2) An assessment of how the Marine Corps, consistent with 
        authorized end strength, can be structured, organized, trained, 
        equipped, and postured to meet the challenges of future 
        competition, crisis, and conflict to include discussion of 
        multiple structural options as relevant and the tradeoffs 
        between different options.
            (3) An assessment of the ability of the defense innovation 
        base and defense industrial base to develop and produce the 
        technologies required to implement the Marine Corps' published 
        Force Design modernization plan on a timeline and at production 
        rates sufficient to sustain military operations.
            (4) An assessment of forward infrastructure and the extent 
        to which installations are operationalized to deter, compete, 
        and prevail during conflict in support of the Marine Corps 
        modernization.
            (5) An assessment of whether the Marine Corps is in 
        compliance with the statutory organization and functions 
        prescribed in section 8063 of title 10, United States Code.
            (6) An assessment of the current retention and recruiting 
        environment and the ability of the Marine Corps to sustain 
        manpower requirements necessary for operational requirements 
        levied by title 10, in light of the published Force Design 
        plan.
            (7) The extent to which the modernization initiatives 
        within the Marine Corps are nested within applicable joint 
        warfighting concepts.
            (8) An assessment of whether the Marine Corps' 
        modernization is consistent with the strategy of integrated 
        deterrence.
            (9) An assessment of the ability of the Marine Corps to 
        generate required force elements for the Immediate Ready Force 
        and the Contingency Ready Force, based on current and planned 
        end strength and structure.
            (10) The extent to which the Marine Corps' published plan 
        for modernized capabilities can be integrated across the Joint 
        Force, to include warfighting concepts at the combatant command 
        level.
            (11) The extent to which the Marine Corps' modernization 
        efforts currently meet the requirements of combatant 
        commanders' current plans and global force management 
        operations, to include a description of what mechanisms exist 
        to ensure geographic combatant requirements inform Marine Corps 
        modernization efforts.
            (12) The extent to which modeling and simulation, 
        experimentation, wargaming, and other analytic methods support 
        the changes incorporated into the Marine Corps' modernization 
        initiatives, to include underlying assumptions and outcomes of 
        such analyses.
            (13) An inventory of extant or planned investments as part 
        of the Marine Corps' modernization efforts, disaggregated by 
        the following capability areas and including actual or 
        projected dates of Initial Operational Capability and Full 
        Operational Capability:
                    (A) Command and Control.
                    (B) Information.
                    (C) Intelligence.
                    (D) Fires.
                    (E) Movement and Maneuver.
                    (F) Protection.
                    (G) Sustainment.
            (14) An inventory of divestments of capability or capacity, 
        whether force structure or equipment, starting in fiscal year 
        2020, including--
                    (A) a timeline of the progress of each divestment;
                    (B) the type of force structure or equipment 
                divested or reduced;
                    (C) the percentage of force structure of equipment 
                divested or reduced, including any equipment entered 
                into inventory management or other form of storage;
                    (D) the rationale and context behind such 
                divestment; and
                    (E) an identification of whether such divestment 
                affects the Marine Corps' ability to meet the 
                requirements of Global Force Management process and the 
                operational plans.
            (15) An assessment of how observations regarding the 
        invasion and defense of Ukraine affect the feasibility, 
        advisability, and suitability of the Marine Corps' published 
        modernization plans.
    (c) Classification of Report.--The report required under subsection 
(a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
classified appendix to the extent required to ensure that the report is 
accurate and complete.

SEC. 1057. STRATEGY TO ACHIEVE CRITICAL MINERAL SUPPLY CHAIN 
              INDEPENDENCE FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Strategy Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment shall submit to the appropriate 
        committees of Congress a strategy to develop supply chains for 
        the Department of Defense that are not dependent on mining or 
        processing of critical minerals in or by covered countries, 
        prioritizing production and processing in the United States, in 
        order to achieve critical mineral supply chain independence 
        from covered countries for the Department by 2035.
            (2) Elements.--The strategy required by paragraph (1) 
        shall--
                    (A) identify and assess significant vulnerabilities 
                in the supply chains of contractors and subcontractors 
                of the Department of Defense involving critical 
                minerals that are mined or processed in or by covered 
                countries;
                    (B) identify and recommend changes to the 
                acquisition laws, regulations, and policies of the 
                Department of Defense to ensure contractors and 
                subcontractors of the Department use supply chains 
                involving critical minerals that are not mined or 
                processed in or by covered countries to the greatest 
                extent practicable, prioritizing production and 
                processing in the United States;
                    (C) evaluate the utility and desirability of using 
                authorities provided by the Defense Production Act of 
                1950 (50 U.S.C. 4501 et seq.) to expand supply chains 
                and processing capacity for critical minerals in the 
                United States;
                    (D) evaluate the utility and desirability of 
                expanding authorities provided by the Defense 
                Production Act of 1950 to be used to expand supply 
                chains and processing capacity for critical minerals by 
                countries that are allies or partners of the United 
                States;
                    (E) evaluate the utility and desirability of 
                leveraging the process for acquiring shortfall 
                materials for the National Defense Stockpile under the 
                Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act (50 
                U.S.C. 98 et seq.) to expand supply chains and 
                processing capacity for critical minerals in the United 
                States and in countries that are allies or partners of 
                the United States;
                    (F) identify areas of potential engagement and 
                partnership with the governments of countries that are 
                allies or partners of the United States to jointly 
                reduce dependence on critical minerals mined or 
                processed in or by covered countries;
                    (G) identify and recommend other policy changes 
                that may be needed to achieve critical mineral supply 
                chain independence from covered countries for the 
                Department;
                    (H) identify and recommend measures to streamline 
                authorities and policies with respect to critical 
                minerals and supply chains for critical minerals; and
                    (I) prioritize the recommendations made in the 
                strategy to achieve critical mineral supply chain 
                independence from covered countries for the Department, 
                prioritizing production and processing in the United 
                States, and taking into consideration economic costs 
                and varying degrees of vulnerability posed to the 
                national security of the United States by reliance on 
                different types of critical minerals.
            (3) Form of strategy.--The strategy required by paragraph 
        (1) shall be submitted in classified form but shall include an 
        unclassified summary.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; 
                and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) Covered country.--The term ``covered country'' means--
                    (A) a covered nation, as defined in section 4872, 
                title 10, United States Code; and
                    (B) any other country determined by the Secretary 
                of Defense to be a geostrategic competitor or adversary 
                of the United States for purposes of this Act.
            (3) Critical mineral.--The term ``critical mineral'' means 
        a critical mineral (as defined in section 7002(a) of the Energy 
        Act of 2020 (30 U.S.C. 1606(a))) that the Secretary of Defense 
        determines to be important to the national security of the 
        United States for purposes of this Act.
            (4) Shortfall material.--The term ``shortfall material'' 
        means materials determined to be in shortfall in the most 
        recent report on stockpile requirements submitted to Congress 
        under subsection (a) of section 14 of the Strategic and 
        Critical Materials Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 98h-5) and 
        included in the most recent briefing required by subsection (f) 
        of that section.

SEC. 1058. QUARTERLY BRIEFING ON HOMELAND DEFENSE PLANNING.

    (a) In General.--Not later than February 1, 2024, and every 90 days 
thereafter through February 1, 2026, the Secretary of Defense shall 
provide a briefing to the congressional defense committees on efforts 
to bolster homeland defense, which is the top priority under the 2022 
National Defense Strategy.
    (b) Contents.--Each briefing required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) A summary of any update made to the homeland defense 
        planning guidance of the Department of Defense during the 
        preceding quarter.
            (2) An update on the latest threats to the homeland posed 
        by the Government of the People's Republic of China, the 
        Government of the Russian Federation, the Government of the 
        Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Government of Iran, 
        and any other adversary.
            (3) A description of actions taken by the Department during 
        the preceding quarter to mitigate such threats.
            (4) An assessment of threats to the homeland in the event 
        of a conflict with any adversary referred to in paragraph (2).
            (5) A description of actions taken by the Department during 
        the preceding quarter to bolster homeland defense in the event 
        of such a conflict.
            (6) An update on coordination by the Department with 
        Federal, State, and Tribal agencies to bolster homeland 
        defense.
            (7) Any other matter the Secretary considers relevant.

SEC. 1059. SPECIAL OPERATIONS FORCE STRUCTURE.

    (a) Sense of Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) special operations forces have a vital and increasing 
        role to play in strategic competition in addition to conducting 
        counterterrorism operations and responding to crises;
            (2) the demand for special operations forces and related 
        capabilities by combatant commanders continues to exceed 
        supply;
            (3) special operations forces cannot be mass produced 
        during a crisis;
            (4) most special operations require non-special operations 
        forces support, including engineers, technicians, intelligence 
        analysts, and logisticians;
            (5) reductions to special operations forces, including 
        critical enablers, would dramatically and negatively impact 
        available options for combatant commanders to engage in 
        strategic competition, carry out counterterrorism operations, 
        and respond to crises; and
            (6) the Secretary of Defense should not consider any 
        reductions to special operations force structure until after 
        the completion of a comprehensive analysis of special 
        operations force structure and a determination that any planned 
        changes would not have a negative impact on the ability of 
        combatant commanders to support strategic competition, counter 
        terrorism, and respond to crises.
    (b) Report.--Not later than March 1, 2024, the Secretary of Defense 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report assessing 
the optimal force structure for special operations forces that includes 
the following elements:
            (1) A description of the role of special operations forces 
        in implementing the most recent national defense strategy under 
        section 113(g) of title 10, United States Code.
            (2) A description of ongoing special operations activities, 
        as described in section 167(k) of title 10, United States Code.
            (3) An assessment of potential future national security 
        threats to the United States across the spectrum of competition 
        and conflict.
            (4) A description of ongoing counterterrorism and 
        contingency operations of the United States.
            (5) A detailed accounting of the demand for special 
        operations forces by geographic combatant command.
            (6) A description of the role of emerging technology on 
        special operations forces.
            (7) An assessment of current and projected capabilities of 
        other United States Armed Forces that could affect force 
        structure capability and capacity requirements of special 
        operations forces.
            (8) An assessment of the size, composition, and 
        organizational structure of the military services' special 
        operations command headquarters and subordinate headquarters 
        elements.
            (9) An assessment of the readiness of special operations 
        forces for assigned missions and future conflicts.
            (10) An assessment of the adequacy of special operations 
        force structure for meeting the goals of the National Military 
        Strategy under section 153(b) of title 10, United States Code.
            (11) A description of the role of special operations forces 
        in supporting the Joint Concept for Competing.
            (12) Any other matters deemed relevant by the Secretary.

SEC. 1060. BRIEFING ON COMMERCIAL TOOLS EMPLOYED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE TO ASSESS FOREIGN OWNERSHIP, CONTROL, OR 
              INFLUENCE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on countering industrial 
espionage.
    (b) Elements.--The request required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following elements:
            (1) A description of commercial and organically developed 
        tools employed by the Department of Defense to--
                    (A) assess the risks of foreign malign ownership, 
                control, or influence within the defense industrial 
                base;
                    (B) mitigate vulnerability associated with, but no 
                limited to, the People's Republic of China's, the 
                Russian Federation's, Iran's, or North Korea's foreign 
                ownership, control, or influence of any part of the 
                acquisition supply chain; and
                    (C) vet program personnel to identify technologies 
                and program components most at risk for industrial 
                espionage.
            (2) A description of specific commercial solutions the 
        Department is currently leveraging to assess and mitigate these 
        risks.

SEC. 1061. PLAN ON COUNTERING HUMAN TRAFFICKING.

    (a) Plan.--Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit a plan to the 
congressional defense committees for coordinating with defense partners 
in North America and South America and supporting interagency 
departments and agencies, as appropriate, in countering human 
trafficking operations, including human trafficking by transnational 
criminal organizations.
    (b) Elements of Plan.--The plan under subsection (a) shall 
include--
            (1) a description of the threat to United States security 
        from human trafficking operations;
            (2) a description of the authorities of the Department of 
        Defense for the purposes specified in subsection (a);
            (3) a description of any current or proposed Department of 
        Defense programs or activities to coordinate with defense 
        partners or provide support to interagency departments and 
        agencies as described in subsection (a); and
            (4) any recommendations of the Secretary of Defense for 
        additional authorities for the purposes of countering human 
        trafficking, including by transnational criminal organizations.
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than 180 days after the submission of the 
plan required under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall 
brief the congressional defense committees regarding the authorities, 
programs, and activities of the Department of Defense to counter human 
trafficking operations.

SEC. 1062. BRIEFING AND REPORT ON USE AND EFFECTIVENESS OF UNITED 
              STATES NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA.

    (a) In General.--Not later than April 30, 2024, the Secretary of 
Defense shall provide to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate 
and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives a 
briefing and report on whether United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
Bay, Cuba, is being used effectively to defend the national security 
interests of the United States.
    (b) Elements.--The briefing and report required by subsection (a) 
shall--
            (1) consider--
                    (A) the presence and activities in Cuba of the 
                militaries of foreign governments, such as the Russian 
                Federation and the People's Republic of China; and
                    (B) to what extent the presence and activities of 
                those militaries could compromise the national security 
                of the United States or of United States allies and 
                partners; and
            (2) discuss--
                    (A) options for dealing with the presence and 
                activities of those militaries in Cuba; and
                    (B) how different use by the United States of 
                United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, might 
                mitigate risk.

SEC. 1063. ENSURING RELIABLE SUPPLY OF CRITICAL MINERALS.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the People's Republic of China's dominant share of the 
        global minerals market is a threat to the economic stability, 
        well being, and competitiveness of key industries in the United 
        States;
            (2) the United States should reduce reliance on the 
        People's Republic of China for critical minerals through--
                    (A) strategic investments in development projects, 
                production technologies, and refining facilities in the 
                United States; and
                    (B) in partnership with strategic allies of the 
                United States that are reliable trading partners, 
                including members of the Quadrilateral Security 
                Dialogue; and
            (3) the United States Trade Representative should initiate 
        multilateral talks among the countries of the Quadrilateral 
        Security Dialogue to promote shared investment and development 
        of critical minerals.
    (b) Report Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the United States Trade 
        Representative, in consultation with the officials specified in 
        paragraph (3), shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
        committees a report on the work of the Trade Representative to 
        address the national security threat posed by the People's 
        Republic of China's control of nearly \2/3\ of the global 
        supply of critical minerals.
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include--
                    (A) a description of the extent of the engagement 
                of the United States with the other countries of the 
                Quadrilateral Security Dialogue to promote shared 
                investment and development of critical minerals during 
                the period beginning on the date of the enactment of 
                this Act and ending on the date of the report; and
                    (B) a description of the plans of the President to 
                leverage the partnership of the countries of the 
                Quadrilateral Security Dialogue to produce a more 
                reliable and secure global supply chain of critical 
                minerals.
            (3) Officials specified.--The officials specified in this 
        paragraph are the following:
                    (A) The Secretary of Commerce.
                    (B) The Chief Executive Officer of the United 
                States International Development Finance Corporation.
                    (C) The Secretary of Energy.
                    (D) The Director of the United States Geological 
                Survey.
            (4) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Committee on Finance and the Committee on 
                Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Ways and Means and the 
                Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
                Representatives.

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

SEC. 1071. MATTERS RELATED TO IRREGULAR WARFARE.

    (a) Affirming the Authority of the Secretary of Defense to Conduct 
Irregular Warfare.--Congress affirms that the Secretary of Defense is 
authorized to conduct irregular warfare operations, including 
clandestine irregular warfare operations, to defend the United States, 
allies of the United States, and interests of the United States.
    (b) Definition Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, for the 
purposes of joint doctrine, define the term ``irregular warfare''.
    (c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to constitute a specific statutory authorization for any of 
the following:
            (1) The conduct of a covert action, as such term is defined 
        in section 503(e) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
        U.S.C. 3093(e)).
            (2) The introduction of United States Armed Forces, within 
        the meaning of the War Powers Resolution (Public Law 93-148; 50 
        U.S.C. 1541 et seq.), into hostilities or into situations 
        wherein hostilities are clearly indicated by the circumstances.

SEC. 1072. JOINT CONCEPT FOR COMPETING IMPLEMENTATION UPDATES.

    (a) Implementation Update and Briefings Required.--Not later than 
March 1, 2024, and every 180 days thereafter through March 1, 2026, the 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall provide the congressional 
defense committees with a written update with accompanying briefing on 
the implementation of the Joint Concept for Competing, released on 
February 10, 2023.
    (b) Elements.--At a minimum, the written updates and briefings 
required by subsection (a) shall include--
            (1) a detailed description of the Joint Staff's efforts to 
        develop integrated competitive strategies to address the 
        challenges posed by specific adversaries, including those 
        designed to--
                    (A) deter aggression;
                    (B) prepare for armed conflict, if necessary;
                    (C) counter the competitive strategies of 
                adversaries; and
                    (D) support the efforts of interagency, allies and 
                foreign partners, and interorganizational partners;
            (2) an identification of relevant updates to joint doctrine 
        and professional military education;
            (3) an update on the Joint Concept for Competing's concept 
        required capabilities;
            (4) an explanation of the integration of the Joint Concept 
        for Competing with other ongoing and future joint force 
        development and design efforts;
            (5) a description of efforts to operationalize the Joint 
        Concept for Competing through a structured approach, including 
        to provide strategic guidance and direction, identify and 
        optimize Joint Force interdependencies with interagency and 
        allied partners, and inform and guide joint force development 
        and design processes;
            (6) an articulation of concept-required capabilities that 
        are necessary for joint force development and design in support 
        of the Joint Concept for Competing;
            (7) a description of efforts to coordinate and synchronize 
        Department of Defense activities with those of other 
        interagency and foreign partners for the purpose of integrated 
        campaigning;
            (8) an identification of any recommendations to better 
        integrate the role of the Joint Force, as identified by the 
        Joint Concept for Competing, with national security efforts of 
        other interagency and foreign partners;
            (9) an identification of any changes to authorities and 
        resources necessary to fully implement the Joint Concept for 
        Competing; and
            (10) a description of any other matters deemed relevant by 
        the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

SEC. 1073. LIMITATION ON CERTAIN FUNDING UNTIL SUBMISSION OF THE 
              CHAIRMAN'S RISK ASSESSMENT AND BRIEFING REQUIREMENT.

    (a) Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.--Of the 
amounts authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2024 
for operation and maintenance, Defense-wide, and available for the 
Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, not more than 50 
percent may be obligated or expended until the date that is 15 days 
after the date on which the following reports are submitted to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives:
            (1) The 2021 risk assessment mandated by paragraph (2) of 
        subsection (b) of section 153 of title 10, United States Code, 
        and required to be delivered pursuant to paragraph (3) of such 
        subsection by not later than February 15, 2021.
            (2) The 2023 risk assessment mandated by paragraph (2) of 
        subsection (b) of section 153 of title 10, United States Code, 
        and required to be delivered pursuant to paragraph (3) of such 
        subsection by not later than February 15, 2023.
    (b) Office of the Secretary of Defense.--Of the amounts authorized 
to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2024 for operation and 
maintenance, Defense-wide, and available for the Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, not more than 50 percent may be obligated or 
expended until the date that is 15 days after the date on which the 
Secretary submits to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
the House of Representatives:
            (1) The risk mitigation plan required to be submitted as 
        part of the assessment described under subsection (a)(1), if 
        applicable.
            (2) The risk mitigation plan required to be submitted as 
        part of the assessment described under subsection (a)(2), if 
        applicable.
    (c) Briefing Requirement.--Section 153 of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Briefing Requirement.--(1) Not later than 15 days after the 
submission of the risk assessment required under subsection (b)(2) or 
March 1 of each year, whichever is earlier, the Chairman shall provide 
to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a briefing on the activities of the Chairman under this 
section.
    ``(2) The briefing shall include--
            ``(A) a detailed review of the risk assessment required 
        under paragraph (2) of subsection (b), including how it 
        addresses the elements required in subparagraph (B) of such 
        paragraph;
            ``(B) an analysis of how the risk assessment informs, and 
        supports, other Joint Staff assessments, including joint 
        capability development assessments, joint force development 
        assessments, comprehensive joint readiness assessments, and 
        global military integration assessments; and
            ``(C) if the risk assessment is not delivered at the time 
        of the briefing, a timeline for when the risk assessment will 
        be submitted to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
        and the House of Representatives.''.

SEC. 1074. NOTIFICATION OF SAFETY AND SECURITY CONCERNS AT CERTAIN 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE LABORATORIES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall notify the 
congressional defense committees within 7 days after ceasing operations 
at any Department of Defense laboratory or facility rated at biosafety 
level (BSL)-3 or higher for safety or security reasons.
    (b) Content.--The notification required under subsection (a) shall 
include--
            (1) the reason why operations have ceased at the laboratory 
        or facility;
            (2) whether appropriate notification to other Federal 
        agencies has occurred;
            (3) a description of the actions taken to determine the 
        root cause of the cessation; and
            (4) a description of the actions taken to restore 
        operations at the laboratory or facility.

SEC. 1075. ASSESSMENT AND RECOMMENDATIONS RELATING TO INFRASTRUCTURE, 
              CAPACITY, RESOURCES, AND PERSONNEL IN GUAM.

    (a) Assessment.--The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the 
Commander of United States Indo-Pacific Command, shall assess the 
capacity of existing infrastructure, resources, and personnel available 
in Guam to meet Indo-Pacific Command strategic objectives.
    (b) Elements.--The assessment under subsection (a) shall include 
the following elements:
            (1) An appraisal of the potential role Guam could play as a 
        key logistics and operational hub for the United States 
        military in the Indo-Pacific region.
            (2) An assessment of whether current infrastructure, 
        capacity, resources, and personnel in Guam is sufficient to 
        meet the expected demands during relevant operations and 
        contingency scenarios.
            (3) An assessment of the adequacy of civilian 
        infrastructure in Guam for supporting the requirements of 
        United States Indo-Pacific Command, including the resilience of 
        such infrastructure in the event of a natural disaster and the 
        vulnerability of such infrastructure to cyber threats.
            (4) Recommendations to improve current infrastructure, 
        capacity, resources, and personnel in Guam, to include the need 
        for recruiting and retention programs, such as cost-of-living 
        adjustments, initiatives for dealing with any shortages of 
        civilian employees, and programs to improve quality-of-life for 
        personnel assigned to Guam.
            (5) An assessment of the implementation of Joint Task Force 
        Micronesia, including the Commander's assessment of 
        requirements for funding, resources, and personnel as compared 
        to what has been programmed in the fiscal year 2024 Future 
        Years Defense Program.
            (6) Timeline and estimated costs by location and project to 
        support both existing and future roles in the region.
            (7) Any other matters determined relevant by the Secretary.
    (c) Report.--Not later than March 1, 2024, the Secretary of Defense 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report including 
the results of the assessment required under subsection (a).

SEC. 1076. PROGRAM AND PROCESSES RELATING TO FOREIGN ACQUISITION.

    (a) Pilot Program for Combatant Command Use of Defense Acquisition 
Workforce Development Account.--Each geographic combatant command may 
use amounts from the Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Account 
established under section 1705 of title 10, United States Code, to hire 
not more than two acquisition specialists or contracting officers to 
advise the combatant command on foreign arms transfer processes, 
including the foreign military sales and direct commercial sales 
processes, for the purpose of facilitating the effective implementation 
of such processes.
    (b) Industry Day.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2024, and not less 
        frequently than annually thereafter, the Secretary of Defense 
        shall conduct an industry day--
                    (A) to raise awareness and understanding among 
                officials of foreign governments, embassy personnel, 
                and industry representatives with respect to the role 
                of the Department of Defense in implementing the 
                foreign military sales and direct commercial sales 
                processes; and
                    (B) to raise awareness--
                            (i) within the United States private sector 
                        with respect to--
                                    (I) foreign demand for United 
                                States weapon systems; and
                                    (II) potential foreign industry 
                                partnering opportunities; and
                            (ii) among officials of foreign governments 
                        and embassy personal with respect to potential 
                        United States material solutions for capability 
                        needs.
            (2) Format.--In conducting each industry day under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense, to the extent 
        practicable, shall seek to maximize participation by 
        representatives of the commercial defense industry and 
        government officials while minimizing cost, by--
                    (A) convening the industry day at the unclassified 
                security level;
                    (B) making the industry day publicly accessible 
                through teleconference or other virtual means; and
                    (C) disseminating any supporting materials by 
                posting the materials on a publicly accessible internet 
                website.
    (c) Senior-level Industry Advisory Group.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
        coordination with representatives of the commercial defense 
        industry, shall establish a senior-level industry advisory 
        group, modeled on the Defense Trade Advisory Group of the 
        Department of State and the Industry Trade Advisory Committees 
        of the Department of Commerce, for the purpose of focusing on 
        the role of the Department of Defense in the foreign military 
        sales process.
            (2) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide a 
        briefing to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
        the House of Representatives on plans to establish the group 
        described in paragraph (1).
    (d) Department of Defense Points of Contact for Foreign Military 
Sales.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment and the Secretary of each military 
        department shall each establish a single point of contact--
                    (A) to coordinate information and outreach on 
                Department of Defense implementation of the foreign 
                military sales process; and
                    (B) to respond to inquiries from representatives of 
                the commercial defense industry and partner countries.
            (2) Points of contact.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment and the Secretary of each military 
        department shall each ensure that the contact information for 
        the corresponding point of contact established under paragraph 
        (1) is--
                    (A) publicized at each industry day conducted under 
                subsection (b); and
                    (B) disseminated among the members of the advisory 
                group established under subsection (f).
    (e) Combatant Command Needs for Exportability.--Not later than July 
1 each year until 2030, the commander of each geographic combatant 
command shall provide to the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition 
and Sustainment a list of systems relating to research and development 
or sustainment that would benefit from investment for exportability 
features in support of the security cooperation objectives of the 
commander.
    (f) Sunset.--This section shall cease to have effect on December 
31, 2028.

SEC. 1077. TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS RELATED TO THE SPACE 
              FORCE.

    (a) Appointment of Chairman; Grade and Rank.--Section 152(c) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``or, in the case 
of an officer of the Space Force, the equivalent grade,''.
    (b) Joint Requirements Oversight Council.--Section 181(c)(1)(F) of 
such title is amended by striking ``in the grade equivalent to the 
grade of general in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, or admiral in 
the Navy'' and inserting ``in the grade of general''.
    (c) Original Appointments of Commissioned Officers.--Section 531(a) 
of such title is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and Regular Marine 
        Corps in the grades of ensign, lieutenant (junior grade), and 
        lieutenant in the Regular Navy, and in the equivalent grades in 
        the Regular Space Force'' and inserting ``Regular Marine Corps, 
        and Regular Space Force, and in the grades of ensign, 
        lieutenant (junior grade), and lieutenant in the Regular 
        Navy''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and Regular Marine 
        Corps in the grades of lieutenant commander, commander, and 
        captain in the Regular Navy, and in the equivalent grades in 
        the Regular Space Force'' and inserting ``Regular Marine Corps, 
        and Regular Space Force, and in the grades of lieutenant 
        commander, commander, and captain in the Regular Navy''.
    (d) Service Credit Upon Original Appointment as a Commissioned 
Officer.--Section 533(b)(2) of such title is amended--
            (1) by striking ``, or Marine Corps, captain in the Navy, 
        or an equivalent grade in the Space Force'' and inserting 
        ``Marine Corps, or Space Force or captain in the Navy''.
    (e) Positions of Importance and Responsibility.--Section 601(e) of 
such title is amended--
            (1) by striking ``or Marine Corps'' and inserting ``Marine 
        Corps, or Space Force, or''; and
            (2) by striking ``or the commensurate grades in the Space 
        Force,''.
    (f) Convening of Selection Boards.--Section 611(a) of such title is 
amended by striking ``or Marine Corps'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, 
or Space Force''.
    (g) Information Furnished to Selection Boards.--Section 615(a)(3) 
of such title is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (B)(i), by striking ``, in the case of 
        the Navy, lieutenant, or in the case of the Space Force, the 
        equivalent grade'' and inserting ``or, in the case of the Navy, 
        lieutenant''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``in the case of the 
        Navy, rear admiral, or, in the case of the Space Force, the 
        equivalent grade'' and inserting ``or, in the case of the Navy, 
        rear admiral''.
    (h) Special Selection Review Boards.--Section 628a(a)(1)(A) of such 
title is amended by striking ``, rear admiral in the Navy, or an 
equivalent grade in the Space Force'' and inserting ``or rear admiral 
in the Navy''.
    (i) Rank: Commissioned Officers of the Armed Forces.--Section 
741(a) of such title is amended in the table by striking ``and Marine 
Corps'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, and Space Force''.
    (j) Regular Commissioned Officers.--Section 1370 of such title is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(2), by striking ``rear admiral in the 
        Navy, or the equivalent grade in the Space Force'' both places 
        it appears and inserting ``or rear admiral in the Navy'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph 
                        (A), by striking ``or Marine Corps, lieutenant 
                        in the Navy, or the equivalent grade in the 
                        Space Force'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, or 
                        Space Force, or lieutenant in the Navy''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``or 
                        Marine Corps, rear admiral in the Navy, or an 
                        equivalent grade in the Space Force'' and 
                        inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force, or 
                        rear admiral in the Navy'';
                    (B) in paragraph (4), by striking ``or Marine 
                Corps, captain in the Navy, or the equivalent grade in 
                the Space Force'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, or 
                Space Force, or captain in the Navy'';
                    (C) in paragraph (5)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``or 
                        Marine Corps, lieutenant commander in the Navy, 
                        or the equivalent grade in the Space Force'' 
                        and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force, 
                        or lieutenant commander in the Navy'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``or 
                        Marine Corps, commander or captain in the Navy, 
                        or an equivalent grade in the Space Force'' and 
                        inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force, or 
                        commander or captain in the Navy''; and
                            (iii) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``or 
                        Marine Corps, rear admiral (lower half) or rear 
                        admiral in the Navy'' and inserting ``Marine 
                        Corps, or Space Corps, or rear admiral (lower 
                        half) or rear admiral in the Navy''; and
                    (D) in paragraph (6), by striking ``, or an 
                equivalent grade in the Space Force,'';
            (3) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``or Marine Corps, 
        vice admiral or admiral in the Navy, or an equivalent grade in 
        the Space Force'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force, 
        or vice admiral or admiral in the Navy'';
            (4) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``or Marine 
                Corps, rear admiral in the Navy, or an equivalent grade 
                in the Space Force'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, or 
                Space Force, or rear admiral in the Navy''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``or Marine 
                Corps, captain in the Navy, or the equivalent grade in 
                the Space Force'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, or 
                Space Force, or captain in the Navy'';
            (5) in subsection (e)(2), by striking ``or Marine Corps, 
        vice admiral or admiral in the Navy, or an equivalent grade in 
        the Space Force'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force, 
        or vice admiral or admiral in the Navy'';
            (6) in subsection (f)--
                    (A) in paragraph (3)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``or 
                        Marine Corps, rear admiral in the Navy, or the 
                        equivalent grade in the Space Force'' and 
                        inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force, or 
                        rear admiral in the Navy''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``or 
                        Marine Corps, vice admiral or admiral in the 
                        Navy, or an equivalent grade in the Space 
                        Force'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space 
                        Force, or vice admiral or admiral in the 
                        Navy''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (6)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``or 
                        Marine Corps, rear admiral in the Navy, or the 
                        equivalent grade in the Space Force'' and 
                        inserting ``, Marine Corps, or Space Force, or 
                        rear admiral in the Navy''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``or 
                        Marine Corps, vice admiral or admiral in the 
                        Navy, or an equivalent grade in the Space 
                        Force'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space 
                        Force, or vice admiral or admiral in the 
                        Navy''; and
            (7) in subsection (g), by striking ``or Marine Corps, rear 
        admiral in the Navy, or an equivalent grade in the Space 
        Force'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force, or rear 
        admiral in the Navy''.
    (k) Officers Entitled to Retired Pay for Non-regular Service.--
Section 1370a of such title is amended--
            (1) in subsection (d)(1), by striking ``or Marine Corps'' 
        both places it appears and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space 
        Force''; and
            (2) in subsection (h), by striking ``or Marine Corps'' and 
        inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force''.
    (l) Retired Base Pay.--Section 1406(i)(3)(B)(v) of such title is 
amended by striking ``The senior enlisted advisor of the Space Force'' 
and inserting ``Chief Master Sergeant of the Space Force''.
    (m) Financial Assistance Program for Specially Selected Members.--
Section 2107 of such title is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``, as a'' and inserting ``or as 
                a''; and
                    (B) by striking ``or Marine Corps, or as an officer 
                in the equivalent grade in the Space Force'' and 
                inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force''; and
            (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``lieutenant, ensign, or 
        an equivalent grade in the Space Force,'' and inserting 
        ``lieutenant or ensign,''.
    (n) Designation of Space Systems Command as a Field Command of the 
United States Space Force.--Section 9016(b)(6)(B)(iv)(II) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``Space and Missile Systems 
Center'' and inserting ``Space Systems Command''.
    (o) Chief of Space Operations.--Section 9082 of such title is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``, flag, or 
        equivalent'' both places it appears; and
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``grade in the Space 
        Force equivalent to the grade of general in the Army, Air 
        Force, and Marine Corps, or admiral in the Navy'' and inserting 
        ``grade of general''.
    (p) Distinguished Flying Cross.--Section 9279(a) of such title is 
amended-
            (1) by adding ``or Space Force'' after ``Air Force''; and
            (2) by adding ``or space'' after ``aerial''.
    (q) Airman's Medal.--Section 9280(a)(1) of such title is amended by 
adding ``or Space Force'' after ``Air Force''.
    (r) Retired Grade of Commissioned Officers.--Section 9341 of such 
title is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(2), by striking ``or the Space 
        Force''; and
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``or Reserve''.
    (s) United States Air Force Institute of Technology: 
Administration.--Section 9414b(a)(2)(B) of such title is amended by 
striking ``or the equivalent grade in the Space Force''.
    (t) Air Force Academy Permanent Professors; Director of 
Admissions.--Section 9436 of such title is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``in the Air 
                Force or the equivalent grade in the Space Force'';
                    (B) in the second sentence--
                            (i) by inserting ``or Regular Space Force'' 
                        after ``Regular Air Force''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``and a permanent 
                        professor appointed from the Regular Space 
                        Force has the grade equivalent to the grade of 
                        colonel in the Regular Air Force''; and
                    (C) in the third sentence, by striking ``in the Air 
                Force or the equivalent grade in the Space Force''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``in the Air 
                Force or the equivalent grade in the Space Force'' both 
                places it appears; and
                    (B) in the second sentence--
                            (i) by inserting ``or Regular Space Force'' 
                        after ``Regular Air Force''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``and a permanent 
                        professor appointed from the Regular Space 
                        Force has the grade equivalent to the grade of 
                        colonel in the Regular Air Force''.
    (u) Cadets: Degree and Commission on Graduation.--Section 9453(b) 
of such title is amended by striking ``in the equivalent grade in''.
    (v) Basic Pay Rates for Enlisted Members.--Footnote 2 of the table 
titled ``ENLISTED MEMBERS'' in section 601(c) of the John Warner 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 
109-364; 37 U.S.C. 1009 note) is amended by striking ``the senior 
enlisted advisor of the Space Force'' and inserting ``Chief Master 
Sergeant of the Space Force''.
    (w) Pay of Senior Enlisted Members.--Section 210(c)(5) of title 37, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``the senior enlisted 
advisor of the Space Force'' and inserting ``the Chief Master Sergeant 
of the Space Force''.
    (x) Personal Money Allowance.--Section 414(b) of title 37, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``the senior enlisted advisor of 
the Space Force'' and inserting ``the Chief Master Sergeant of the 
Space Force''.

SEC. 1078. AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH COMMERCIAL INTEGRATION CELLS WITHIN 
              CERTAIN COMBATANT COMMANDS.

    (a) In General.--The Commander of the United States Africa Command, 
the Commander of the United States European Command, the Commander of 
the United States Indo-Pacific Command, the Commander of the United 
States Northern Command, and the Commander of the United States 
Southern Command may each establish--
            (1) a commercial integration cell within their respective 
        combatant command for the purpose of closely integrating public 
        and private entities with capabilities relevant to the area of 
        operation of such combatant command; and
            (2) a chief technology officer position within their 
        respective combatant command, who may--
                    (A) oversee such commercial integration cell; and
                    (B) report directly to the commander of the 
                applicable combatant command.
    (b) Requirements and Authorities.--In establishing the commercial 
integration cells under subsection (a)(1), each commander described in 
that paragraph may--
            (1) make the applicable commercial integration cell 
        available to commercial entities with existing Government 
        contracts up to the Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented 
        Information clearance level;
            (2) ensure that such commercial integration cell is an 
        information-sharing partnership rather than a service contract;
            (3) in the case of a solution identified within the 
        commercial integration cell that requires resources, work 
        within existing resources or processes to request such 
        resources; and
            (4) integrate lessons learned from the commercial 
        integration cells of the United States Space Command and the 
        United States Central Command.
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Commander of the United States Africa 
Command, the Commander of the United States European Command, the 
Commander of the United States Indo-Pacific Command, the Commander of 
the United States Northern Command, and the Commander of the United 
States Southern Command shall each provide to the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives--
            (1) a briefing on whether a commercial integration cell was 
        implemented and any related progress, including any challenges 
        to implementation;
            (2) in the case of a commander of a combatant command who 
        chooses not to use the authority provided in this section to 
        establish a commercial integration cell or a chief technology 
        officer--
                    (A) an explanation for not using such authority; 
                and
                    (B) a description of the manner in which such 
                commander is otherwise addressing the need to integrate 
                commercial solutions; and
            (3) in the case of a combatant command that has an official 
        performing a role similar to the role described for a chief 
        technology officer under subsection (a)(2), a detailed 
        description of the role performed by such official.

SEC. 1079. MODIFICATION ON LIMITATION ON FUNDING FOR INSTITUTIONS OF 
              HIGHER EDUCATION HOSTING CONFUCIUS INSTITUTES.

    Section 1062 of the William M. (``Mac'') Thornberry National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116-283; 10 
U.S.C. 2241 note) is amended by striking subsection (b).

SEC. 1080. MODIFICATION OF DEFINITION OF DOMESTIC SOURCE FOR TITLE III 
              OF DEFENSE PRODUCTION ACT OF 1950.

    (a) In General.--Section 702(7) of such Act (50 U.S.C. 4552(7)) is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as clauses 
        (i) and (ii), respectively, and by moving such clauses, as so 
        redesignated, two ems to the right;
            (2) by striking ``The term'' and inserting the following:
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (B), the term'';
            (3) in clause (ii), as redesignated by paragraph (1), by 
        striking ``subparagraph (A)'' and inserting ``clause (i)''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph 
        (B):
                    ``(B) Domestic source for title iii.--
                            ``(i) In general.--For purposes of title 
                        III, the term `domestic source' means a 
                        business concern that--
                                    ``(I) performs substantially all of 
                                the research and development, 
                                engineering, manufacturing, and 
                                production activities required of such 
                                business concern under a contract with 
                                the United States relating to a 
                                critical component or a critical 
                                technology item in--
                                            ``(aa) the United States or 
                                        Canada; or
                                            ``(bb) subject to clause 
                                        (ii), Australia or the United 
                                        Kingdom; and
                                    ``(II) procures from business 
                                concerns described in subclause (I) 
                                substantially all of any components or 
                                assemblies required under a contract 
                                with the United States relating to a 
                                critical component or critical 
                                technology item.
                            ``(ii) Limitations on use of business 
                        concerns in australia and united kingdom.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--A business 
                                concern described in clause (i)(I)(bb) 
                                may be treated as a domestic source 
                                only for purposes of the exercise of 
                                authorities under title III relating to 
                                national defense matters that cannot be 
                                fully addressed with business concerns 
                                described in clause (i)(I)(aa).
                                    ``(II) National defense matters.--
                                For purposes of subclause (I), a 
                                national defense matter is a matter 
                                relating to the development or 
                                production of--
                                            ``(aa) a defense article, 
                                        as defined in section 301 of 
                                        title 10, United States Code; 
                                        or
                                            ``(bb) a material critical 
                                        to national defense or national 
                                        security, as defined in section 
                                        10(f) of the Strategic and 
                                        Critical Materials Stock Piling 
                                        Act (50 U.S.C. 98h-1(f)).''.
    (b) Reports on Exercise of Title III Authorities.--Title III of the 
Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4531 et seq.) is amended by 
adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 305. REPORTS ON EXERCISE OF AUTHORITIES.

    ``(a) In General.--The President, or the head of an agency to which 
the President has delegated authorities under this title, shall submit 
a report and provide a briefing to the appropriate congressional 
committees with respect to any action taken pursuant to such 
authorities--
            ``(1) except as provided by paragraph (2), not later than 
        30 days after taking the action; and
            ``(2) in the case of an action that involves a business 
        concern in the United Kingdom or Australia, not later than 30 
        days before taking the action.
    ``(b) Elements.--
            ``(1) In general.--Each report and briefing required by 
        subsection (a) with respect to an action described in that 
        subsection shall include--
                    ``(A) a justification of the necessity of the use 
                of authorities under this title; and
                    ``(B) a description of the financial terms of any 
                related financial transaction.
            ``(2) Additional elements relating to business concerns in 
        the united kingdom or australia.--Each report and briefing 
        required by subsection (a) with respect to an action described 
        in paragraph (2) of that subsection shall include, in addition 
        to the elements under paragraph (1)--
                    ``(A) a certification that business concerns in the 
                United States or Canada were not available with respect 
                to the action; and
                    ``(B) an analysis of why such business concerns 
                were not available.
    ``(c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
section, the term `appropriate congressional committees' means--
            ``(1) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs 
        of the Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of the 
        House of Representatives; and
            ``(2) in the case of an action described in subsection (a) 
        involving strategic and critical materials relating to national 
        defense matters (as described in section 702(7)(B)(ii)(II)), 
        the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and 
        the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
        Representatives.''.

SEC. 1081. COMPREHENSIVE STRATEGY FOR TALENT DEVELOPMENT AND MANAGEMENT 
              OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE COMPUTER PROGRAMMING WORKFORCE.

    (a) Policy.--It shall be a policy of the Armed Forces, including 
the reserve components, to establish appropriate and effective talent 
development and management policies and practices that allow for the 
military departments to present an adaptable, qualified workforce 
training and education standard with respect to computer programming 
skill needs for the workforce of the Department of Defense, including 
technical and nontechnical skills related to artificial intelligence 
and software coding.
    (b) Strategy Required.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
        with the Secretaries of each military department and the 
        Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, shall develop a strategy 
        to achieve the policy set forth in subsection (a).
            (2) Elements.--The strategy required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include--
                    (A) the development, funding, and execution of a 
                coherent approach and transparent strategy across 
                digital platforms and applications that enable 
                development and presentation of forces with appropriate 
                programmatic oversight for both active and reserve 
                component workforces;
                    (B) the evaluation of the potential need for career 
                field occupational codes or other service-specific 
                talent management mechanisms aligned with the work 
                roles related to computer programming, artificial 
                intelligence and machine learning competency, and 
                software engineering under the Department of Defense 
                Cyber Workforce Framework to allow for the military 
                departments to identify, assess, track, manage, and 
                assign personnel with computer programming, coding, and 
                artificial intelligence skills through established 
                mechanisms, under the policies of the military 
                departments with respect to career field management, 
                including--
                            (i) development, modification, or 
                        revalidation of a career field or separate 
                        occupational code for computer programming 
                        occupational areas aligned with such work 
                        roles; and
                            (ii) development, modification, or 
                        revalidation of a unique special skills or 
                        experience designator or qualification, tracked 
                        independently of a career field, for computer 
                        programming occupational areas aligned with 
                        such work roles;
                    (C) the evaluation of current talent management 
                processes to incorporate equivalency assessment as part 
                of the qualification standard to accommodate 
                experiences, training, or skills developed as a result 
                of other work experience or training opportunities, 
                including potentially from civilian occupations or 
                commercially-available training courses
                    (D) assessment of members of the Armed Forces who 
                have completed the qualification process of the 
                military department concerned or who qualify based on 
                existing skills and training across computer 
                programming occupational areas; and
                    (E) maintaining data on, and longitudinal tracking 
                of, members of the Armed Forces described in 
                subparagraph (D).
    (c) Responsibilities.--The Secretary of each military department, 
in consultation with the Assistant Secretary of the military department 
for Manpower and Reserve Affairs, the Chief Information Officer of the 
Department of Defense, and the Chief Digital and Artificial 
Intelligence Officer of the Office of the Secretary of Defense, shall--
            (1) be responsible for development and implementation of 
        the policy set forth in subsection (a) and strategy required by 
        subsection (b); and
            (2) carry out that responsibility through an officer or 
        employee of the military department assigned by the Secretary 
        for that purpose.
    (d) Duties.--In developing and providing for the implementation of 
the policy set forth in subsection (a) and strategy required by 
subsection (b), the Secretary of each military department, in 
consultation with the Assistant Secretary of the military department 
for Manpower and Reserve Affairs, the Chief Information Officer of the 
military department, the Chief Information Officer of the Department of 
Defense, and the Chief Digital and Artificial Intelligence Officer of 
the Office of the Secretary of Defense, shall establish and update 
relevant policies and practices to enable the talent development and 
management to provide a workforce capable of conducting computer 
programming, software coding, and artificial intelligence activities, 
including by meeting related manning, systems, training, and other 
related funding requirements.
    (e) Strategy and Implementation Plans.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of each military 
        department shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of 
        the Senate and the House of Representatives the strategy 
        required by subsection (b).
            (2) Implementation plans required.--Not later than one year 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
        each military department shall submit to the Committees on 
        Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
        implementation plan for the strategy required by subsection 
        (b), including identification of resource needs and areas where 
        current internal policy or legal statutes may need to be 
        updated.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Computer programming occupational area.--The term 
        ``computer programming occupational area'' means a technical or 
        nontechnical occupational position that supports computer 
        programming, coding, or artificial intelligence operations and 
        development, including the following positions:
                    (A) Data scientists.
                    (B) Data engineers.
                    (C) Data analysts.
                    (D) Software developers.
                    (E) Machine learning engineers.
                    (F) Program managers.
                    (G) Acquisition professionals.
            (2) Digital platform or application.--The term ``digital 
        platform or application'' means an online integrated personnel 
        management system or human capital solution.
            (3) Qualification process.--The term ``qualification 
        process''--
                    (A) means the process, modeled on a streamlined 
                version of the process for obtaining joint 
                qualifications, for training and verifying members of 
                the Armed Forces to receive career field or 
                occupational codes associated with computer programming 
                occupational areas; and
                    (B) may include--
                            (i) experiences, education, and training 
                        received as a part of military service, 
                        including fellowships, talent exchanges, 
                        positions within government, and educational 
                        courses; and
                            (ii) in the case of members of the reserve 
                        components, experiences, education, and 
                        training received in their civilian 
                        occupations.
            (4) Standard.--The term ``standard'' means the defined, 
        reviewed, and published standard for occupational series or 
        career fields that provides a measurable standard by which the 
        military departments can assess the ability to meet their 
        operational planning and steady-state force presentation 
        requirements during the global force management process.

SEC. 1082. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR DESTRUCTION OF 
              LANDMINES.

    (a) Limitation.--Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the 
funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2024 for the Department of Defense may be 
obligated or expended for the destruction of anti-personnel landmine 
munitions before the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits the 
report required by subsection (c).
    (b) Exception for Safety.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to any 
anti-personnel landmine munitions that the Secretary of Defense 
determines are unsafe or could pose a safety risk to the United States 
Armed Forces if not demilitarized or destroyed.
    (c) Report Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        submit to the congressional defense committees a report that 
        includes each of the following:
                    (A) A description of the policy of the Department 
                of Defense regarding the use of anti-personnel 
                landmines, including methods for commanders to seek 
                waivers to use such munitions.
                    (B) Projections covering the period of 10 years 
                following the date of the report of--
                            (i) the inventory levels for all anti-
                        personnel landmine munitions, taking into 
                        account future production of anti-personnel 
                        landmine munitions, any plans for 
                        demilitarization of such munitions, the age of 
                        the munitions, storage and safety 
                        considerations, and any other factors that are 
                        expected to impact the size of the inventory;
                            (ii) the cost to achieve the inventory 
                        levels projected in clause (i), including the 
                        cost for potential demilitarization or disposal 
                        of such munitions; and
                            (iii) the cost to develop and produce new 
                        anti-personnel landmine munitions the Secretary 
                        determines are necessary to meet the demands of 
                        operational plans.
                    (C) An assessment by the Chairman of the Joint 
                Chiefs of Staff of the effects of the inventory levels 
                projected under subparagraph (B)(i) on operational 
                plans.
                    (D) Any inputs by the Chairman and the commanders 
                of the combatant commands to a policy process that 
                resulted in a change in landmine policy during the 
                calendar year preceding the date of the enactment of 
                this Act.
                    (E) Any other matters that the Secretary determines 
                appropriate for inclusion in the report.
            (2) Form of report.--The report required by paragraph (1) 
        shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
        classified annex.
    (d) Briefing Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on 
        the status, as of the date of the briefing, of research and 
        development into operational alternatives to anti-personnel 
        landmine munitions.
            (2) Form of briefing.--The briefing required by paragraph 
        (1) may contain classified information.
    (e) Anti-personnel Landmine Munitions Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``anti-personnel landmine munitions'' includes anti-personnel 
landmines and submunitions, as defined by the Convention on the 
Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-
Personnel Mines and on their Destruction, concluded at Oslo September 
18, 1997, as determined by the Secretary.

SEC. 1083. NOGALES WASTEWATER IMPROVEMENT.

    (a) Amendment to the Act of July 27, 1953.--The first section of 
the Act of July 27, 1953 (67 Stat. 195, chapter 242; 22 U.S.C. 277d-
10), is amended by striking the period at the end and inserting ``: 
Provided further, That the equitable portion of the Nogales sanitation 
project for the city of Nogales, Arizona, shall be limited to the costs 
directly associated with the treatment and conveyance of the wastewater 
of the city and, to the extent practicable, shall not include any costs 
directly associated with the quality or quantity of wastewater 
originating in Mexico.''.
    (b) Nogales Sanitation Project.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) City.--The term ``City'' means the City of 
                Nogales, Arizona.
                    (B) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the 
                United States Section of the International Boundary and 
                Water Commission.
                    (C) International outfall interceptor.--The term 
                ``International Outfall Interceptor'' means the 
                pipeline that conveys wastewater from the United 
                States-Mexico border to the Nogales International 
                Wastewater Treatment Plant.
                    (D) Nogales international wastewater treatment 
                plant.--The term ``Nogales International Wastewater 
                Treatment Plant'' means the wastewater treatment plant 
                that--
                            (i) is operated by the Commission;
                            (ii) is located in Rio Rico, Santa Cruz 
                        County, Arizona, after manhole 99; and
                            (iii) treats sewage and wastewater 
                        originating from--
                                    (I) Nogales, Sonora, Mexico; and
                                    (II) Nogales, Arizona.
            (2) Ownership and control.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B) and in 
                accordance with authority under the Act of July 27, 
                1953 (67 Stat. 195, chapter 242; 22 U.S.C. 277d-10 et 
                seq.), on transfer by donation from the City of the 
                current stake of the City in the International Outfall 
                Interceptor to the Commission, the Commission shall 
                enter into such agreements as are necessary to assume 
                full ownership and control over the International 
                Outfall Interceptor.
                    (B) Agreements required.--The Commission shall 
                assume full ownership and control over the 
                International Outfall Interceptor under subparagraph 
                (A) after all applicable governing bodies in the State 
                of Arizona, including the City, have--
                            (i) signed memoranda of understanding 
                        granting to the Commission access to existing 
                        easements for a right of entry to the 
                        International Outfall Interceptor for the life 
                        of the International Outfall Interceptor;
                            (ii) entered into an agreement with respect 
                        to the flows entering the International Outfall 
                        Interceptor that are controlled by the City; 
                        and
                            (iii) agreed to work in good faith to 
                        expeditiously enter into such other agreements 
                        as are necessary for the Commission to operate 
                        and maintain the International Outfall 
                        Interceptor.
            (3) Operations and maintenance.--
                    (A) In general.--Beginning on the date on which the 
                Commission assumes full ownership and control of the 
                International Outfall Interceptor under paragraph 
                (2)(A), but subject to paragraph (5), the Commission 
                shall be responsible for the operations and maintenance 
                of the International Outfall Interceptor.
                    (B) Authorization of appropriations.--There are 
                authorized to be appropriated to the Commission to 
                carry out this paragraph, to remain available until 
                expended--
                            (i) $6,500,000 for fiscal year 2025; and
                            (ii) not less than $2,500,000 for fiscal 
                        year 2026 and each fiscal year thereafter.
            (4) Debris screen.--
                    (A) Debris screen required.--
                            (i) In general.--The Commission shall 
                        construct, operate, and maintain a debris 
                        screen at Manhole One of the International 
                        Outfall Interceptor for intercepting debris and 
                        drug bundles coming to the United States from 
                        Nogales, Sonora, Mexico.
                            (ii) Requirement.--In constructing and 
                        operating the debris screen under clause (i), 
                        the Commission and the Commissioner of U.S. 
                        Customs and Border Protection shall 
                        coordinate--
                                    (I) the removal of drug bundles and 
                                other illicit goods caught in the 
                                debris screen; and
                                    (II) other operations at the 
                                International Outfall Interceptor that 
                                require coordination.
                    (B) Authorization of appropriations.--There are 
                authorized to be appropriated to the Commission, to 
                remain available until expended--
                            (i) for fiscal year 2025--
                                    (I) $8,000,000 for construction of 
                                the debris screen described in 
                                subparagraph (A)(i); and
                                    (II) not less than $1,000,000 for 
                                the operations and maintenance of the 
                                debris screen described in subparagraph 
                                (A)(i); and
                            (ii) not less than $1,000,000 for fiscal 
                        year 2026 and each fiscal year thereafter for 
                        the operations and maintenance of the debris 
                        screen described in subparagraph (A)(i).
            (5) Limitation of claims.--Chapter 171 and section 1346(b) 
        of title 28, United States Code (commonly known as the 
        ``Federal Tort Claims Act''), shall not apply to any claim 
        arising from the activities of the Commission in carrying out 
        this subsection, including any claim arising from damages that 
        result from overflow of the International Outfall Interceptor 
        due to excess inflow to the International Outfall Interceptor 
        originating from Nogales, Sonora, Mexico.
    (c) Effective Date.--This section (including the amendments made by 
this section) takes effect on October 1, 2024.

SEC. 1084. AUTHORIZATION OF AMOUNTS TO SUPPORT INITIATIVES FOR MOBILE 
              MAMMOGRAPHY SERVICES FOR VETERANS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs $10,000,000 for the Office of Women's Health of the Department 
of Veterans Affairs under section 7310 of title 38, United States Code, 
to be used by the Secretary to expand access of women veterans to--
            (1) mobile mammography initiatives;
            (2) advanced mammography equipment; and
            (3) outreach activities to publicize those initiatives and 
        equipment.

SEC. 1085. PROTECTION OF COVERED SECTORS.

    The Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4501 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

              ``TITLE VIII--PROTECTION OF COVERED SECTORS

``SEC. 801. DEFINITIONS.

    ``In this title:
            ``(1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        `appropriate congressional committees' means--
                    ``(A) the Committee on Armed Services, the 
                Committee on Finance, the Committee on Banking, 
                Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Select Committee on 
                Intelligence, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of 
                the Senate; and
                    ``(B) the Committee on Armed Services, the 
                Committee on Ways and Means, the Committee on Financial 
                Services, the Permanent Select Committee on 
                Intelligence, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of 
                the House of Representatives.
            ``(2) Country of concern.--The term `country of concern' 
        means, subject to such regulations as may be prescribed in 
        accordance with section 806, a country specified in section 
        4872(d)(2) of title 10, United States Code.
            ``(3) Covered activity.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to such regulations as 
                may be prescribed in accordance with section 806, and 
                except as provided in subparagraph (B), the term 
                `covered activity' means any activity engaged in by a 
                United States person in a related to a covered sector 
                that involves--
                            ``(i) an acquisition by such United States 
                        person of an equity interest or contingent 
                        equity interest, or monetary capital 
                        contribution, in a covered foreign entity, 
                        directly or indirectly, by contractual 
                        commitment or otherwise, with the goal of 
                        generating income or gain;
                            ``(ii) an arrangement for an interest held 
                        by such United States person in the short- or 
                        long-term debt obligations of a covered foreign 
                        entity that includes governance rights that are 
                        characteristic of an equity investment, 
                        management, or other important rights, as 
                        defined in regulations prescribed in accordance 
                        with section 806;
                            ``(iii) the establishment of a wholly owned 
                        subsidiary in a country of concern, such as a 
                        greenfield investment, for the purpose of 
                        production, design, testing, manufacturing, 
                        fabrication, or development related to one or 
                        more covered sectors;
                            ``(iv) the establishment by such United 
                        States person of a joint venture in a country 
                        of concern or with a covered foreign entity for 
                        the purpose of production, design, testing, 
                        manufacturing, fabrication, or research 
                        involving one or more covered sectors, or other 
                        contractual or other commitments involving a 
                        covered foreign entity to jointly research and 
                        develop new innovation, including through the 
                        transfer of capital or intellectual property or 
                        other business proprietary information; or
                            ``(v) the acquisition by a United States 
                        person with a covered foreign entity of--
                                    ``(I) operational cooperation, such 
                                as through supply or support 
                                arrangements;
                                    ``(II) the right to board 
                                representation (as an observer, even if 
                                limited, or as a member) or an 
                                executive role (as may be defined 
                                through regulation) in a covered 
                                foreign entity;
                                    ``(III) the ability to direct or 
                                influence such operational decisions as 
                                may be defined through such 
                                regulations;
                                    ``(IV) formal governance 
                                representation in any operating 
                                affiliate, like a portfolio company, of 
                                a covered foreign entity; or
                                    ``(V) a new relationship to share 
                                or provide business services, such as 
                                but not limited to financial services, 
                                marketing services, maintenance, or 
                                assembly functions, related to a 
                                covered sectors.
                    ``(B) Exceptions.--The term `covered activity' does 
                not include--
                            ``(i) any transaction the value of which 
                        the Secretary of the Treasury determines is de 
                        minimis, as defined in regulations prescribed 
                        in accordance with section 806;
                            ``(ii) any category of transactions that 
                        the Secretary determines is in the national 
                        interest of the United States, as may be 
                        defined in regulations prescribed in accordance 
                        with section 806; or
                            ``(iii) any ordinary or administrative 
                        business transaction as may be defined in such 
                        regulations.
            ``(4) Covered foreign entity.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to regulations 
                prescribed in accordance with section 806, and except 
                as provided in subparagraph (B), the term `covered 
                foreign entity' means--
                            ``(i) any entity that is incorporated in, 
                        has a principal place of business in, or is 
                        organized under the laws of a country of 
                        concern;
                            ``(ii) any entity the equity securities of 
                        which are primarily traded in the ordinary 
                        course of business on one or more exchanges in 
                        a country of concern;
                            ``(iii) any entity in which any entity 
                        described in subclause (i) or (ii) holds, 
                        individually or in the aggregate, directly or 
                        indirectly, an ownership interest of greater 
                        than 50 percent; or
                            ``(iv) any other entity that is not a 
                        United States person and that meets such 
                        criteria as may be specified by the Secretary 
                        of the Treasury in such regulations.
                    ``(B) Exception.--The term `covered foreign entity' 
                does not include any entity described in subparagraph 
                (A) that can demonstrate that a majority of the equity 
                interest in the entity is ultimately owned by--
                            ``(i) nationals of the United States; or
                            ``(ii) nationals of such countries (other 
                        than countries of concern) as are identified 
                        for purposes of this subparagraph pursuant to 
                        regulations prescribed in accordance with 
                        section 806.
            ``(5) Covered sectors.--Subject to regulations prescribed 
        in accordance with section 806, the term `covered sectors' 
        includes sectors within the following areas, as specified in 
        such regulations:
                    ``(A) Advanced semiconductors and microelectronics.
                    ``(B) Artificial intelligence.
                    ``(C) Quantum information science and technology.
                    ``(D) Hypersonics.
                    ``(E) Satellite-based communications.
                    ``(F) Networked laser scanning systems with dual-
                use applications.
            ``(6) Party.--The term `party', with respect to an 
        activity, has the meaning given that term in regulations 
        prescribed in accordance with section 806.
            ``(7) United states.--The term `United States' means the 
        several States, the District of Columbia, and any territory or 
        possession of the United States.
            ``(8) United states person.--The term `United States 
        person' means--
                    ``(A) an individual who is a citizen or national of 
                the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for 
                permanent residence in the United States; and
                    ``(B) any corporation, partnership, or other entity 
                organized under the laws of the United States or the 
                laws of any jurisdiction within the United States.

``SEC. 802. ADMINISTRATION OF UNITED STATES INVESTMENT NOTIFICATION.

    ``(a) In General.--The President shall delegate the authorities and 
functions under this title to the Secretary of the Treasury.
    ``(b) Coordination.--In carrying out the duties of the Secretary 
under this title, the Secretary shall--
            ``(1) coordinate with the Secretary of Commerce; and
            ``(2) consult with the United States Trade Representative, 
        the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of State, and the 
        Director of National Intelligence.

``SEC. 803. MANDATORY NOTIFICATION OF COVERED ACTIVITIES.

    ``(a) Mandatory Notification.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to regulations prescribed in 
        accordance with section 806, beginning on the date that is 90 
        days after such regulations take effect, a United States person 
        that plans to engage in a covered activity shall--
                    ``(A) if such covered activity is not a secured 
                transaction, submit to the Secretary of the Treasury a 
                complete written notification of the activity not later 
                than 14 days before the anticipated completion date of 
                the activity; and
                    ``(B) if such covered activity is a secured 
                transaction, submit to the Secretary of the Treasury a 
                complete written notification of the activity not later 
                than 14 days after the completion date of the activity.
            ``(2) Circulation of notification.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall, upon 
                receipt of a notification under paragraph (1), promptly 
                inspect the notification for completeness.
                    ``(B) Incomplete notifications.--If a notification 
                submitted under paragraph (1) is incomplete, the 
                Secretary shall promptly inform the United States 
                person that submits the notification that the 
                notification is not complete and provide an explanation 
                of relevant material respects in which the notification 
                is not complete.
            ``(3) Identification of non-notified activity.--The 
        Secretary shall establish a process to identify covered 
        activity for which--
                    ``(A) a notification is not submitted to the 
                Secretary under paragraph (1); and
                    ``(B) information is reasonably available.
    ``(b) Confidentiality of Information.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), any 
        information or documentary material filed with the Secretary of 
        the Treasury pursuant to this section shall be exempt from 
        disclosure under section 552 of title 5, United States Code, 
        and no such information or documentary material may be made 
        public by any government agency or Member of Congress.
            ``(2) Exceptions.--The exemption from disclosure provided 
        by paragraph (1) shall not prevent the disclosure of the 
        following:
                    ``(A) Information relevant to any administrative or 
                judicial action or proceeding.
                    ``(B) Information provided to Congress or any of 
                the appropriate congressional committees.
                    ``(C) Information important to the national 
                security analysis or actions of the President to any 
                domestic governmental entity, or to any foreign 
                governmental entity of an ally or partner of the United 
                States, under the direction and authorization of the 
                President or the Secretary, only to the extent 
                necessary for national security purposes, and subject 
                to appropriate confidentiality and classification 
                requirements.
                    ``(D) Information that the parties have consented 
                to be disclosed to third parties.

``SEC. 804. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.

    ``(a) In General.--Not later than 360 days after the date on which 
the regulations prescribed under section 806 take effect, and not less 
frequently than annually thereafter, the Secretary of the Treasury 
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
that--
            ``(1) lists all notifications submitted under section 
        803(a) during the year preceding submission of the report and 
        includes, with respect to each such notification--
                    ``(A) basic information on each party to the 
                covered activity with respect to which the notification 
                was submitted; and
                    ``(B) the nature of the covered activity that was 
                the subject to the notification, including the elements 
                of the covered activity that necessitated a 
                notification;
            ``(2) includes a summary of those notifications, 
        disaggregated by sector, by covered activity, and by country of 
        concern;
            ``(3) provides additional context and information regarding 
        trends in the sectors, the types of covered activities, and the 
        countries involved in those notifications;
            ``(4) includes a description of the national security risks 
        associated with--
                    ``(A) the covered activities with respect to which 
                those notifications were submitted; or
                    ``(B) categories of such activities; and
            ``(5) assesses the overall impact of those notifications, 
        including recommendations for--
                    ``(A) expanding existing Federal programs to 
                support the production or supply of covered sectors in 
                the United States, including the potential of existing 
                authorities to address any related national security 
                concerns;
                    ``(B) investments needed to enhance covered sectors 
                and reduce dependence on countries of concern regarding 
                those sectors; and
                    ``(C) the continuation, expansion, or modification 
                of the implementation and administration of this title, 
                including recommendations with respect to whether the 
                definition of `country of concern' under section 801(2) 
                should be amended to add or remove countries.
    ``(b) Form of Report.--Each report required by this section shall 
be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    ``(c) Testimony Required.--Not later than one year after the date 
of enactment of this title, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of 
the Treasury and the Secretary of Commerce shall each provide to the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the 
Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives 
testimony with respect to the national security threats relating to 
investments by the United States persons in countries of concern and 
broader international capital flows.

``SEC. 805. PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT.

    ``(a) Penalties With Respect to Unlawful Acts.--Subject to 
regulations prescribed in accordance with section 806, it shall be 
unlawful--
            ``(1) to fail to submit a notification under subsection (a) 
        of section 803 with respect to a covered activity or to submit 
        other information as required by the Secretary of the Treasury; 
        or
            ``(2) to make a material misstatement or to omit a material 
        fact in any information submitted to the Secretary under this 
        title.
    ``(b) Enforcement.--The President may direct the Attorney General 
to seek appropriate relief in the district courts of the United States, 
in order to implement and enforce this title.

``SEC. 806. REQUIREMENT FOR REGULATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--Not later than 360 days after the date of the 
enactment of this title, the Secretary of the Treasury shall finalize 
regulations to carry out this title.
    ``(b) Elements.--Regulations prescribed to carry out this title 
shall include specific examples of the types of--
            ``(1) activities that will be considered to be covered 
        activities; and
            ``(2) the specific sectors and subsectors that may be 
        considered to be covered sectors.
    ``(c) Requirements for Certain Regulations.--The Secretary of the 
Treasury shall prescribe regulations further defining the terms used in 
this title, including `covered activity', `covered foreign entity', and 
`party', in accordance with subchapter II of chapter 5 and chapter 7 of 
title 5 (commonly known as the `Administrative Procedure Act').
    ``(d) Public Participation in Rulemaking.--The provisions of 
section 709 shall apply to any regulations issued under this title.
    ``(e) Low-burden Regulations.--In prescribing regulations under 
this section, the Secretary of the Treasury shall structure the 
regulations--
            ``(1) to minimize the cost and complexity of compliance for 
        affected parties;.
            ``(2) to ensure the benefits of the regulations outweigh 
        their costs;
            ``(3) to adopt the least burdensome alternative that 
        achieves regulatory objectives;
            ``(4) to prioritize transparency and stakeholder 
        involvement in the process of prescribing the regulations; and
            ``(5) to regularly review and streamline existing 
        regulations to reduce redundancy and complexity.

``SEC. 807. MULTILATERAL ENGAGEMENT AND COORDINATION.

    ``(a) In General.--The President shall delegate the authorities and 
functions under this section to the Secretary of State.
    ``(b) Authorities.--The Secretary of State, in coordination with 
the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Commerce, the United 
States Trade Representative, and the Director of National Intelligence, 
shall--
            ``(1) conduct bilateral and multilateral engagement with 
        the governments of countries that are allies and partners of 
        the United States to ensure coordination of protocols and 
        procedures with respect to covered activities with countries of 
        concern and covered foreign entities; and
            ``(2) upon adoption of protocols and procedures described 
        in paragraph (1), work with those governments to establish 
        mechanisms for sharing information, including trends, with 
        respect to such activities.
    ``(c) Strategy for Development of Outbound Investment Screening 
Mechanisms.--The Secretary of State, in coordination with the Secretary 
of the Treasury and in consultation with the Attorney General, shall--
            ``(1) develop a strategy to work with countries that are 
        allies and partners of the United States to develop mechanisms 
        comparable to this title for the notification of covered 
        activities; and
            ``(2) provide technical assistance to those countries with 
        respect to the development of those mechanisms.
    ``(d) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the development of the 
strategy required by subsection (b), and annually thereafter for a 
period of 5 years, the Secretary of State shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees a report that includes the 
strategy, the status of implementing the strategy, and a description of 
any impediments to the establishment of mechanisms comparable to this 
title by allies and partners,

``SEC. 808. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--There are authorized to be appropriated such 
sums as may be necessary to carry out this title, including to provide 
outreach to industry and persons affected by this title.
    ``(b) Hiring Authority.--The head of any agency designated as a 
lead agency under section 802(b) may appoint, without regard to the 
provisions of sections 3309 through 3318 of title 5, United States 
Code, not more than 25 candidates directly to positions in the 
competitive service (as defined in section 2102 of that title) in that 
agency. The primary responsibility of individuals in positions 
authorized under the preceding sentence shall be to administer this 
title.

``SEC. 809. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION WITH RESPECT TO FREE AND FAIR 
              COMMERCE.

    ``Nothing in this title may be construed to restrain or deter 
foreign investment in the United States, United States investment 
abroad, or trade in goods or services, if such investment and trade do 
not pose a risk to the national security of the United States.''.

SEC. 1086. REVIEW OF AGRICULTURE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS BY COMMITTEE ON 
              FOREIGN INVESTMENT IN THE UNITED STATES.

    Section 721 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4565) 
is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (4)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A)--
                                    (I) in clause (i), by striking ``; 
                                and'' and inserting a semicolon;
                                    (II) in clause (ii), by striking 
                                the period at the end and inserting ``; 
                                and''; and
                                    (III) by adding at the end the 
                                following:
                            ``(iii) any transaction described in clause 
                        (vi) or (vii) of subparagraph (B) proposed or 
                        pending on or after the date of the enactment 
                        of this clause.'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by adding at the 
                        end the following:
                            ``(vi) Any other investment, subject to 
                        regulations prescribed under subparagraphs (D) 
                        and (E), by a foreign person in any 
                        unaffiliated United States business that is 
                        engaged in agriculture or biotechnology related 
                        to agriculture.
                            ``(vii) Subject to subparagraphs (C) and 
                        (E), the purchase or lease by, or a concession 
                        to, a foreign person of private real estate 
                        that is--
                                    ``(I) located in the United States;
                                    ``(II) used in agriculture; and
                                    ``(III) more than 320 acres or 
                                valued in excess of $5,000,000.'';
                            (iii) in subparagraph (C)(i), by striking 
                        ``subparagraph (B)(ii)'' and inserting ``clause 
                        (ii) or (vii) of subparagraph (B)'';
                            (iv) in subparagraph (D)--
                                    (I) in clause (i), by striking 
                                ``subparagraph (B)(iii)'' and inserting 
                                ``clauses (iii) and (vi) of 
                                subparagraph (B)'';
                                    (II) in clause (iii)(I), by 
                                striking ``subparagraph (B)(iii)'' and 
                                inserting ``clauses (iii) and (vi) of 
                                subparagraph (B)'';
                                    (III) in clause (iv)(I), by 
                                striking ``subparagraph (B)(iii)'' each 
                                place it appears and inserting 
                                ``clauses (iii) and (vi) of 
                                subparagraph (B)''; and
                                    (IV) in clause (v), by striking 
                                ``subparagraph (B)(iii)'' and inserting 
                                ``clauses (iii) and (vi) of 
                                subparagraph (B)''; and
                            (v) in subparagraph (E), by striking 
                        ``clauses (ii) and (iii)'' and inserting 
                        ``clauses (ii), (iii), (iv), and (vii)''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(14) Agriculture.--The term `agriculture' has the meaning 
        given such term in section 3 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
        1938 (29 U.S.C. 203).'';
            (2) in subsection (k)(2)--
                    (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (H), (I), and 
                (J), as subparagraphs (I), (J), and (K), respectively; 
                and
                    (B) inserting after subparagraph (G) the following 
                new subparagraph:
                    ``(H) The Secretary of Agriculture (nonvoting, ex 
                officio).''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(r) Prohibition With Respect to Agricultural Companies and Real 
Estate.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        this section, if the Committee, in conducting a review and 
        investigation under this section, determines that a transaction 
        described in clause (i), (vi), or (vii) of subsection (a)(4)(B) 
        would result in control by a covered foreign person of or 
        investment by a covered foreign person in a United States 
        business engaged in agriculture or private real estate used in 
        agriculture, the President shall prohibit such transaction.
            ``(2) Waiver.--The President may waive, on a case-by-case 
        basis, the requirement to prohibit a transaction under 
        paragraph (1), not less than 30 days after the President 
        determines and reports to the relevant committees of 
        jurisdiction that it is vital to the national security 
        interests of the United States to waive such prohibition.
            ``(3) Defined terms.--In this subsection:
                    ``(A) Covered person.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Except as provided by 
                        clause (ii), the term `covered person'--
                                    ``(I) has the meaning given the 
                                term `a person owned by, controlled by, 
                                or subject to the jurisdiction or 
                                direction of a foreign adversary' in 
                                section 7.2 of title 15, Code of 
                                Federal Regulations (as in effect on 
                                the date of the enactment of the 
                                National Defense Authorization Act for 
                                Fiscal Year 2024), except that each 
                                reference to `foreign adversary' in 
                                that definition shall be deemed to be a 
                                reference to the government of a 
                                covered country; and
                                    ``(II) includes an entity that--
                                            ``(aa) is registered in or 
                                        organized under the laws of a 
                                        covered country;
                                            ``(bb) has a principal 
                                        place of business in a covered 
                                        country; or
                                            ``(cc) has a subsidiary 
                                        with a principal place of 
                                        business in a covered country.
                            ``(ii) Exclusions.--The term `covered 
                        person' does not include a United States 
                        citizen or an alien lawfully admitted for 
                        permanent residence to the United States.
                    ``(B) Covered country.--The term `covered country' 
                means any of the following:
                            ``(i) The People's Republic of China.
                            ``(ii) The Russian Federation.
                            ``(iii) The Islamic Republic of Iran.
                            ``(iv) The Democratic People's Republic of 
                        Korea.''.

SEC. 1087. 9/11 RESPONDER AND SURVIVOR HEALTH FUNDING CORRECTION ACT OF 
              2023.

    (a) Department of Defense, Armed Forces, or Other Federal Worker 
Responders to the September 11 Attacks at the Pentagon and Shanksville, 
Pennsylvania.--Title XXXIII of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
300mm et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 3306 (42 U.S.C. 300mm-5)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (5) through (11) 
                and paragraphs (12) through (17) as paragraphs (6) 
                through (12) and paragraphs (14) through (19), 
                respectively;
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following:
            ``(5) The term `Federal agency' means an agency, office, or 
        other establishment in the executive, legislative, or judicial 
        branch of the Federal Government.''; and
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (12), as so 
                redesignated, the following:
            ``(13) The term `uniformed services' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 101(a) of title 10, United States Code.''; 
        and
            (2) in section 3311(a) (42 U.S.C. 300mm-21(a))--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)(C)(i)--
                            (i) in subclause (I), by striking ``; or'' 
                        and inserting a semicolon;
                            (ii) in subclause (II), by striking ``; 
                        and'' and inserting a semicolon; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(III) was an employee of the Department 
                        of Defense or any other Federal agency, worked 
                        during the period beginning on September 11, 
                        2001, and ending on September 18, 2001, for a 
                        contractor of the Department of Defense or any 
                        other Federal agency, or was a member of a 
                        regular or reserve component of the uniformed 
                        services; and performed rescue, recovery, 
                        demolition, debris cleanup, or other related 
                        services at the Pentagon site of the terrorist-
                        related aircraft crash of September 11, 2001, 
                        during the period beginning on September 11, 
                        2001, and ending on the date on which the 
                        cleanup of the site was concluded, as 
                        determined by the WTC Program Administrator; or
                            ``(IV) was an employee of the Department of 
                        Defense or any other Federal agency, worked 
                        during the period beginning on September 11, 
                        2001, and ending on September 18, 2001, for a 
                        contractor of the Department of Defense or any 
                        other Federal agency, or was a member of a 
                        regular or reserve component of the uniformed 
                        services; and performed rescue, recovery, 
                        demolition, debris cleanup, or other related 
                        services at the Shanksville, Pennsylvania, site 
                        of the terrorist-related aircraft crash of 
                        September 11, 2001, during the period beginning 
                        on September 11, 2001, and ending on the date 
                        on which the cleanup of the site was concluded, 
                        as determined by the WTC Program Administrator; 
                        and''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (4)(A)--
                            (i) by striking ``(A) In general.--The'' 
                        and inserting the following:
                    ``(A) Limit.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The'';
                            (ii) by inserting ``or subclause (III) or 
                        (IV) of paragraph (2)(C)(i)'' after ``or 
                        (2)(A)(ii)''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(ii) Certain responders to the september 
                        11 attacks at the pentagon and shanksville, 
                        pennsylvania.--The total number of individuals 
                        who may be enrolled under paragraph (3)(A)(ii) 
                        based on eligibility criteria described in 
                        subclause (III) or (IV) of paragraph (2)(C)(i) 
                        shall not exceed 500 at any time.''.
    (b) Additional Funding for the World Trade Center Health Program.--
Title XXXIII of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300mm et seq.) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 3353. SPECIAL FUND.

    ``(a) In General.--There is established a fund to be known as the 
World Trade Center Health Program Special Fund (referred to in this 
section as the `Special Fund'), consisting of amounts deposited into 
the Special Fund under subsection (b).
    ``(b) Amount.--Out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, there is appropriated for fiscal year 2024 $444,000,000 
for deposit into the Special Fund, which amounts shall remain available 
in such Fund through fiscal year 2033.
    ``(c) Uses of Funds.--Amounts deposited into the Special Fund under 
subsection (b) shall be available, without further appropriation and 
without regard to any spending limitation under section 3351(c), to the 
WTC Program Administrator as needed at the discretion of such 
Administrator, for carrying out any provision in this title (including 
sections 3303 and 3341(c)).
    ``(d) Remaining Amounts.--Any amounts that remain in the Special 
Fund on September 30, 2033, shall be deposited into the Treasury as 
miscellaneous receipts.

``SEC. 3354. PENTAGON/SHANKSVILLE FUND.

    ``(a) In General.--There is established a fund to be known as the 
World Trade Center Health Program Fund for Certain WTC Responders at 
the Pentagon and Shanksville, Pennsylvania (referred to in this section 
as the `Pentagon/Shanksville Fund'), consisting of amounts deposited 
into the Pentagon/Shanksville Fund under subsection (b).
    ``(b) Amount.--Out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, there is appropriated for fiscal year 2024 $232,000,000 
for deposit into the Pentagon/Shanksville Fund, which amounts shall 
remain available in such Fund through fiscal year 2033.
    ``(c) Uses of Funds.--
            ``(1) In general.--Amounts deposited into the Pentagon/
        Shanksville Fund under subsection (b) shall be available, 
        without further appropriation and without regard to any 
        spending limitation under section 3351(c), to the WTC Program 
        Administrator for the purpose of carrying out section 3312 with 
        regard to WTC responders enrolled in the WTC Program based on 
        eligibility criteria described in subclause (III) or (IV) of 
        section 3311(a)(2)(C)(i).
            ``(2) Limitation on other funding.--Notwithstanding 
        sections 3331(a), 3351(b)(1), 3352(c), and 3353(c), and any 
        other provision in this title, for the period of fiscal years 
        2024 through 2033, no amounts made available under this title 
        other than those amounts appropriated under subsection (b) may 
        be available for the purpose described in paragraph (1).
    ``(d) Remaining Amounts.--Any amounts that remain in the Pentagon/
Shanksville Fund on September 30, 2033, shall be deposited into the 
Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--Title XXXIII of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300mm et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 3311(a)(4)(B)(i)(II) (42 U.S.C. 300mm-
        21(a)(4)(B)(i)(II)), by striking ``sections 3351 and 3352'' and 
        inserting ``this title'';
            (2) in section 3321(a)(3)(B)(i)(II) (42 U.S.C. 300mm-
        31(a)(3)(B)(i)(II)), by striking ``sections 3351 and 3352'' and 
        inserting ``this title'';
            (3) in section 3331 (42 U.S.C. 300mm-41)--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``the World 
                Trade Center Health Program Fund and the World Trade 
                Center Health Program Supplemental Fund'' and inserting 
                ``(as applicable) the Funds established under sections 
                3351, 3352, 3353, and 3354''; and
                    (B) in subsection (d)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)(A), by inserting ``or 
                        the World Trade Center Health Program Special 
                        Fund under section 3353'' after ``section 
                        3351'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (1)(B), by inserting ``or 
                        the World Trade Center Health Program Fund for 
                        Certain WTC Responders at the Pentagon and 
                        Shanksville, Pennsylvania under section 3354'' 
                        after ``section 3352''; and
                            (iii) in paragraph (2), in the flush text 
                        following subparagraph (C), by inserting ``or 
                        the World Trade Center Health Program Fund for 
                        Certain WTC Responders at the Pentagon and 
                        Shanksville, Pennsylvania under section 3354'' 
                        after ``section 3352''; and
            (4) in section 3351(b) (42 U.S.C. 300mm-61(b))--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``, the World 
                Trade Center Health Program Special Fund under section 
                3353, or the World Trade Center Health Program Fund for 
                Certain WTC Responders at the Pentagon and Shanksville, 
                Pennsylvania under section 3354'' before the period at 
                the end; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``, the World 
                Trade Center Health Program Special Fund under section 
                3353, or the World Trade Center Health Program Fund for 
                Certain WTC Responders at the Pentagon and Shanksville, 
                Pennsylvania under section 3354'' before the period at 
                the end.
    (d) Ensuring Timely Access to Generics.--Section 505(q) of the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355(q)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)(i), by inserting ``, 
                10.31,'' after ``10.30'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (E)--
                            (i) by striking ``application and'' and 
                        inserting ``application or'';
                            (ii) by striking ``If the Secretary'' and 
                        inserting the following:
                            ``(i) In general.--If the Secretary''; and
                            (iii) by striking the second sentence and 
                        inserting the following:
                            ``(ii) Primary purpose of delaying.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--In determining 
                                whether a petition was submitted with 
                                the primary purpose of delaying an 
                                application, the Secretary may consider 
                                the following factors:
                                            ``(aa) Whether the petition 
                                        was submitted in accordance 
                                        with paragraph (2)(B), based on 
                                        when the petitioner knew the 
                                        relevant information relied 
                                        upon to form the basis of such 
                                        petition.
                                            ``(bb) When the petition 
                                        was submitted in relation to 
                                        when the petitioner reasonably 
                                        should have known the relevant 
                                        information relied upon to form 
                                        the basis of such petition.
                                            ``(cc) Whether the 
                                        petitioner has submitted 
                                        multiple or serial petitions or 
                                        supplements to petitions 
                                        raising issues that reasonably 
                                        could have been known to the 
                                        petitioner at the time of 
                                        submission of the earlier 
                                        petition or petitions.
                                            ``(dd) Whether the petition 
                                        was submitted close in time to 
                                        a known, first date upon which 
                                        an application under subsection 
                                        (b)(2) or (j) of this section 
                                        or section 351(k) of the Public 
                                        Health Service Act could be 
                                        approved.
                                            ``(ee) Whether the petition 
                                        was submitted without relevant 
                                        data or information in support 
                                        of the scientific positions 
                                        forming the basis of such 
                                        petition.
                                            ``(ff) Whether the petition 
                                        raises the same or 
                                        substantially similar issues as 
                                        a prior petition to which the 
                                        Secretary has responded 
                                        substantively already, 
                                        including if the subsequent 
                                        submission follows such 
                                        response from the Secretary 
                                        closely in time.
                                            ``(gg) Whether the petition 
                                        requests changing the 
                                        applicable standards that other 
                                        applicants are required to 
                                        meet, including requesting 
                                        testing, data, or labeling 
                                        standards that are more onerous 
                                        or rigorous than the standards 
                                        the Secretary has determined to 
                                        be applicable to the listed 
                                        drug, reference product, or 
                                        petitioner's version of the 
                                        same drug.
                                            ``(hh) The petitioner's 
                                        record of submitting petitions 
                                        to the Food and Drug 
                                        Administration that have been 
                                        determined by the Secretary to 
                                        have been submitted with the 
                                        primary purpose of delay.
                                            ``(ii) Other relevant and 
                                        appropriate factors, which the 
                                        Secretary shall describe in 
                                        guidance.
                                    ``(II) Guidance.--The Secretary may 
                                issue or update guidance, as 
                                appropriate, to describe factors the 
                                Secretary considers in accordance with 
                                subclause (I).'';
                    (C) by striking subparagraph (F);
                    (D) by redesignating subparagraphs (G) through (I) 
                as subparagraphs (F) through (H), respectively; and
                    (E) in subparagraph (H), as so redesignated, by 
                striking ``submission of this petition'' and inserting 
                ``submission of this document'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) through (C) 
                as subparagraphs (C) through (E), respectively;
                    (B) by inserting before subparagraph (C), as so 
                redesignated, the following:
                    ``(A) In general.--A person shall submit a petition 
                to the Secretary under paragraph (1) before filing a 
                civil action in which the person seeks to set aside, 
                delay, rescind, withdraw, or prevent submission, 
                review, or approval of an application submitted under 
                subsection (b)(2) or (j) of this section or section 
                351(k) of the Public Health Service Act. Such petition 
                and any supplement to such a petition shall describe 
                all information and arguments that form the basis of 
                the relief requested in any civil action described in 
                the previous sentence.
                    ``(B) Timely submission of citizen petition.--A 
                petition and any supplement to a petition shall be 
                submitted within 180 days after the person knew the 
                information that forms the basis of the request made in 
                the petition or supplement.'';
                    (C) in subparagraph (C), as so redesignated--
                            (i) in the heading, by striking ``within 
                        150 days'';
                            (ii) in clause (i), by striking ``during 
                        the 150-day period referred to in paragraph 
                        (1)(F),''; and
                            (iii) by amending clause (ii) to read as 
                        follows:
                            ``(ii) on or after the date that is 151 
                        days after the date of submission of the 
                        petition, the Secretary approves or has 
                        approved the application that is the subject of 
                        the petition without having made such a final 
                        decision.'';
                    (D) by amending subparagraph (D), as so 
                redesignated, to read as follows:
                    ``(D) Dismissal of certain civil actions.--
                            ``(i) Petition.--If a person files a civil 
                        action against the Secretary in which a person 
                        seeks to set aside, delay, rescind, withdraw, 
                        or prevent submission, review, or approval of 
                        an application submitted under subsection 
                        (b)(2) or (j) of this section or section 351(k) 
                        of the Public Health Service Act without 
                        complying with the requirements of subparagraph 
                        (A), the court shall dismiss without prejudice 
                        the action for failure to exhaust 
                        administrative remedies.
                            ``(ii) Timeliness.--If a person files a 
                        civil action against the Secretary in which a 
                        person seeks to set aside, delay, rescind, 
                        withdraw, or prevent submission, review, or 
                        approval of an application submitted under 
                        subsection (b)(2) or (j) of this section or 
                        section 351(k) of the Public Health Service Act 
                        without complying with the requirements of 
                        subparagraph (B), the court shall dismiss with 
                        prejudice the action for failure to timely file 
                        a petition.
                            ``(iii) Final response.--If a civil action 
                        is filed against the Secretary with respect to 
                        any issue raised in a petition timely filed 
                        under paragraph (1) in which the petitioner 
                        requests that the Secretary take any form of 
                        action that could, if taken, set aside, delay, 
                        rescind, withdraw, or prevent submission, 
                        review, or approval of an application submitted 
                        under subsection (b)(2) or (j) of this section 
                        or section 351(k) of the Public Health Service 
                        Act before the Secretary has taken final agency 
                        action on the petition within the meaning of 
                        subparagraph (C), the court shall dismiss 
                        without prejudice the action for failure to 
                        exhaust administrative remedies.''; and
                    (E) in clause (iii) of subparagraph (E), as so 
                redesignated, by striking ``as defined under 
                subparagraph (2)(A)'' and inserting ``within the 
                meaning of subparagraph (C)''; and
            (3) in paragraph (4)--
                    (A) by striking ``Exceptions'' in the paragraph 
                heading and all that follows through ``This subsection 
                does'' and inserting ``Exceptions.--This subsection 
                does'';
                    (B) by striking subparagraph (B); and
                    (C) by redesignating clauses (i) and (ii) as 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, and adjusting 
                the margins accordingly.

SEC. 1088. REAUTHORIZATION OF VOLUNTARY REGISTRY FOR FIREFIGHTER CANCER 
              INCIDENCE.

    Section 2(h) of the Firefighter Cancer Registry Act of 2018 (42 
U.S.C. 280e-5(h)) is amended by striking ``$2,500,000 for each of the 
fiscal years 2018 through 2022'' and inserting ``$5,500,000 for each of 
fiscal years 2024 through 2028''.

SEC. 1089. REQUIREMENT FOR UNQUALIFIED OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT.

    The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the Department of 
Defense has received an unqualified opinion on its financial statements 
by October 1, 2027.

SEC. 1090. BRIEFING ON AIR NATIONAL GUARD ACTIVE ASSOCIATIONS.

    Not later than November 1, 2023, the Secretary of the Air Force 
shall brief the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives on the 
potential increase in air refueling capacity and cost savings, 
including manpower, to be achieved by making all Air National Guard KC-
135 units active associations.

SEC. 1090A. INFORMING CONSUMERS ABOUT SMART DEVICES ACT.

    (a) Required Disclosure of a Camera or Recording Capability in 
Certain Internet-connected Devices.--Each manufacturer of a covered 
device shall disclose, clearly and conspicuously and prior to purchase, 
whether the covered device manufactured by the manufacturer contains a 
camera or microphone as a component of the covered device.
    (b) Enforcement by the Federal Trade Commission.--
            (1) Unfair or deceptive acts or practices.--A violation of 
        subsection (a) shall be treated as a violation of a rule 
        defining an unfair or deceptive act or practice prescribed 
        under section 18(a)(1)(B) of the Federal Trade Commission Act 
        (15 U.S.C. 57a(a)(1)(B)).
            (2) Actions by the commission.--
                    (A) In general.--The Federal Trade Commission (in 
                this section referred to as the ``Commission'') shall 
                enforce this section in the same manner, by the same 
                means, and with the same jurisdiction, powers, and 
                duties as though all applicable terms and provisions of 
                the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.) 
                were incorporated into and made a part of this section.
                    (B) Penalties and privileges.--Any person who 
                violates this section or a regulation promulgated under 
                this section shall be subject to the penalties and 
                entitled to the privileges and immunities provided in 
                the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 41 et 
                seq.).
                    (C) Savings clause.--Nothing in this section shall 
                be construed to limit the authority of the Commission 
                under any other provision of law.
            (3) Commission guidance.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        date of enactment of this section, the Commission, through 
        outreach to relevant private entities, shall issue guidance to 
        assist manufacturers in complying with the requirements of this 
        section, including guidance about best practices for making the 
        disclosure required by subsection (a) as clear and conspicuous 
        and age appropriate as practicable and about best practices for 
        the use of a pictorial (as defined in section 2(a) of the 
        Consumer Review Fairness Act of 2016 (15 U.S.C. 45b(a))) visual 
        representation of the information to be disclosed.
            (4) Tailored guidance.--A manufacturer of a covered device 
        may petition the Commission for tailored guidance as to how to 
        meet the requirements of subsection (a) consistent with 
        existing rules of practice or any successor rules.
            (5) Limitation on commission guidance.--No guidance issued 
        by the Commission with respect to this section shall confer any 
        rights on any person, State, or locality, nor shall operate to 
        bind the Commission or any person to the approach recommended 
        in such guidance. In any enforcement action brought pursuant to 
        this section, the Commission shall allege a specific violation 
        of a provision of this section. The Commission may not base an 
        enforcement action on, or execute a consent order based on, 
        practices that are alleged to be inconsistent with any such 
        guidelines, unless the practices allegedly violate subsection 
        (a).
    (c) Definition of Covered Device.--In this section, the term 
``covered device''--
            (1) means a consumer product, as defined by section 3(a) of 
        the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052(a)) that is 
        capable of connecting to the internet, a component of which is 
        a camera or microphone; and
            (2) does not include--
                    (A) a telephone (including a mobile phone), a 
                laptop, tablet, or any device that a consumer would 
                reasonably expect to have a microphone or camera;
                    (B) any device that is specifically marketed as a 
                camera, telecommunications device, or microphone; or
                    (C) any device or apparatus described in sections 
                255, 716, and 718, and subsections (aa) and (bb) of 
                section 303 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 
                U.S.C. 255; 617; 619; and 303(aa) and (bb)), and any 
                regulations promulgated thereunder.
    (d) Effective Date.--This section shall apply to all covered 
devices manufactured after the date that is 180 days after the date on 
which guidance is issued by the Commission under subsection (b)(3), and 
shall not apply to covered devices manufactured or sold before such 
date, or otherwise introduced into interstate commerce before such 
date.

SEC. 1090B. IMPROVING PROCESSING BY DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS OF 
              DISABILITY CLAIMS FOR POST-TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER 
              THROUGH IMPROVED TRAINING.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Department of 
Veterans Affairs Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Processing Claims 
Improvement Act of 2023''.
    (b) Formal Process for Conduct of Annual Analysis of Training Needs 
Based on Trends.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, acting 
through the Under Secretary for Benefits, shall establish a formal 
process to analyze, on an annual basis, training needs of employees of 
the Department who review claims for disability compensation for 
service-connected post-traumatic stress disorder, based on identified 
processing error trends.
    (c) Formal Process for Conduct of Annual Studies to Support Annual 
Analysis.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary, acting through the 
        Under Secretary, shall establish a formal process to conduct, 
        on an annual basis, studies to help guide the process 
        established under subsection (b).
            (2) Elements.--Each study conducted under paragraph (1) 
        shall cover the following:
                    (A) Military post-traumatic stress disorder 
                stressors.
                    (B) Decision-making claims for claims processors.

SEC. 1090C. U.S. HOSTAGE AND WRONGFUL DETAINEE DAY ACT OF 2023.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``U.S. Hostage 
and Wrongful Detainee Day Act of 2023''.
    (b) Designation.--
            (1) Hostage and wrongful detainee day.--
                    (A) In general.--Chapter 1 of title 36, United 
                States Code, is amended--
                            (i) by redesignating the second section 146 
                        (relating to Choose Respect Day) as section 
                        147; and
                            (ii) by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 148. U.S. Hostage and Wrongful Detainee Day
    ``(a) Designation.--March 9 is U.S. Hostage and Wrongful Detainee 
Day.
    ``(b) Proclamation.--The President is requested to issue each year 
a proclamation calling on the people of the United States to observe 
U.S. Hostage and Wrongful Detainee Day with appropriate ceremonies and 
activities.''.
                    (B) Technical and conforming amendment.--The table 
                of sections for chapter 1 of title 36, United States 
                Code, is amended by striking the item relating to the 
                second section 146 and inserting the following new 
                items:

``147. Choose Respect Day.
``148. U.S. Hostage and Wrongful Detainee Day.''.
            (2) Hostage and wrongful detainee flag.--
                    (A) In general.--Chapter 9 of title 36, United 
                States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
                following new section:
``Sec. 904. Hostage and Wrongful Detainee flag
    ``(a) Designation.--The Hostage and Wrongful Detainee flag 
championed by the Bring Our Families Home Campaign is designated as the 
symbol of the commitment of the United States to recognizing, and 
prioritizing the freedom of, citizens and lawful permanent residents of 
the United States held as hostages or wrongfully detained abroad.
    ``(b) Required Display.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Hostage and Wrongful Detainee flag 
        shall be displayed at the locations specified in paragraph (3) 
        on the days specified in paragraph (2).
            ``(2) Days specified.--The days specified in this paragraph 
        are the following:
                    ``(A) U.S. Hostage and Wrongful Detainee Day, March 
                9.
                    ``(B) Flag Day, June 14.
                    ``(C) Independence Day, July 4.
                    ``(D) Any day on which a citizen or lawful 
                permanent resident of the United States--
                            ``(i) returns to the United States from 
                        being held hostage or wrongfully detained 
                        abroad; or
                            ``(ii) dies while being held hostage or 
                        wrongfully detained abroad.
            ``(3) Locations specified.--The locations specified in this 
        paragraph are the following:
                    ``(A) The Capitol.
                    ``(B) The White House.
                    ``(C) The buildings containing the official office 
                of--
                            ``(i) the Secretary of State; and
                            ``(ii) the Secretary of Defense.
    ``(c) Display To Be in a Manner Visible to the Public.--Display of 
the Hostage and Wrongful Detainee flag pursuant to this section shall 
be in a manner designed to ensure visibility to the public.
    ``(d) Limitation.--This section may not be construed or applied so 
as to require any employee to report to work solely for the purpose of 
providing for the display of the Hostage and Wrongful Detainee flag.''.
                    (B) Technical and conforming amendment.--The table 
                of sections for chapter 9 of title 36, United States 
                Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

``904. Hostage and Wrongful Detainee flag.''.

SEC. 1090D. PROHIBITION ON PROVISION OF AIRPORT IMPROVEMENT GRANT FUNDS 
              TO CERTAIN ENTITIES THAT HAVE VIOLATED INTELLECTUAL 
              PROPERTY RIGHTS OF UNITED STATES ENTITIES.

    (a) In General.--During the period beginning on the date that is 30 
days after the date of the enactment of this section, amounts provided 
as project grants under subchapter I of chapter 471 of title 49, United 
States Code, may not be used to enter into a contract described in 
subsection (b) with any entity on the list required by subsection (c).
    (b) Contract Described.--A contract described in this subsection is 
a contract or other agreement for the procurement of infrastructure or 
equipment for a passenger boarding bridge at an airport.
    (c) List Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, and thereafter as required by paragraph 
        (2), the United States Trade Representative, and the 
        Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall make 
        available to the Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
        Administration a publicly-available a list of entities 
        manufacturing airport passenger boarding infrastructure or 
        equipment that--
                    (A) are owned, directed by, or subsidized in whole, 
                or in part by the People's Republic of China;
                    (B) have been determined by a Federal court to have 
                misappropriated intellectual property or trade secrets 
                from an entity organized under the laws of the United 
                States or any jurisdiction within the United States;
                    (C) own or control, are owned or controlled by, are 
                under common ownership or control with, or are 
                successors to, an entity described in subparagraph (A);
                    (D) own or control, are under common ownership or 
                control with, or are successors to, an entity described 
                in subparagraph (A); or
                    (E) have entered into an agreement with or accepted 
                funding from, whether in the form of minority 
                investment interest or debt, have entered into a 
                partnership with, or have entered into another 
                contractual or other written arrangement with, an 
                entity described in subparagraph (A).
            (2) Updates to list.--The United States Trade 
        Representative shall update the list required by paragraph (1), 
        based on information provided by the Administrator of the 
        Federal Aviation Administration, in consultation with the 
        Attorney General--
                    (A) not less frequently than every 90 days during 
                the 180-day period following the initial publication of 
                the list under paragraph (1); and
                    (B) not less frequently than annually thereafter.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section, the definitions in section 47102 
of title 49, United States Code, shall apply.

SEC. 1090E. CONDUCT OF WINTER SEASON RECONNAISSANCE OF ATMOSPHERIC 
              RIVERS IN THE WESTERN UNITED STATES.

    (a) Conduct of Reconnaissance.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to the availability of 
        appropriations, the 53rd Weather Reconnaissance Squadron of the 
        Air Force Reserve Command and the Administrator of the National 
        Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration may use aircraft, 
        personnel, and equipment necessary to meet the mission 
        requirements of the 53rd Weather Reconnaissance Squadron of the 
        Air Force Reserve Command and the National Oceanic and 
        Atmospheric Administration if those aircraft, personnel, and 
        equipment are not otherwise needed for hurricane monitoring and 
        response.
            (2) Activities.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 53rd 
        Weather Reconnaissance Squadron of the Air Force Reserve 
        Command, in consultation with the Administrator of the National 
        Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and appropriate line 
        offices of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
        may--
                    (A) improve the accuracy and timeliness of 
                observations to support the forecast and warning 
                services of the National Weather Service for the coasts 
                of the United States;
                    (B) collect data in data-sparse regions where 
                conventional, upper-air observations are lacking;
                    (C) support water management decisions and flood 
                forecasting through the execution of targeted airborne 
                dropsonde, buoys, autonomous platform observations, 
                satellite observations, remote sensing observations, 
                and other observation platforms as appropriate, 
                including enhanced assimilation of the data from those 
                observations over the eastern, central, and western 
                north Pacific Ocean, the Gulf of Mexico, and the 
                western Atlantic Ocean to improve forecasts of large 
                storms for civil authorities and military decision 
                makers;
                    (D) participate in the research and operations 
                partnership that guides flight planning and uses 
                research methods to improve and expand the capabilities 
                and effectiveness of weather reconnaissance over time; 
                and
                    (E) undertake such other additional activities as 
                the Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
                Atmospheric Administration, in collaboration with the 
                53rd Weather Reconnaissance Squadron, considers 
                appropriate to further prediction of dangerous weather 
                events.
    (b) Reports.--
            (1) Air force.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the 
                Air Force, in consultation with the Administrator of 
                the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
                shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress 
                a comprehensive report on the resources necessary for 
                the 53rd Weather Reconnaissance Squadron of the Air 
                Force Reserve Command to continue to support, through 
                December 31, 2035--
                            (i) the National Hurricane Operations Plan;
                            (ii) the National Winter Season Operations 
                        Plan; and
                            (iii) any other operational requirements 
                        relating to weather reconnaissance.
                    (B) Appropriate committees of congress.--In this 
                paragraph, the term ``appropriate committees of 
                Congress'' means--
                            (i) the Committee on Armed Services of the 
                        Senate;
                            (ii) the Subcommittee on Defense of the 
                        Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
                            (iii) the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
                        and Transportation of the Senate;
                            (iv) the Committee on Science, Space, and 
                        Technology of the House of Representatives;
                            (v) the Committee on Armed Services of the 
                        House of Representatives; and
                            (vi) the Subcommittee on Defense of the 
                        Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
                        Representatives.
            (2) Commerce.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce shall submit 
        to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of 
        the Senate and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology 
        of the House of Representatives a comprehensive report on the 
        resources necessary for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
        Administration to continue to support, through December 31, 
        2035--
                    (A) the National Hurricane Operations Plan;
                    (B) the National Winter Season Operations Plan; and
                    (C) any other operational requirements relating to 
                weather reconnaissance.

SEC. 1090F. NATIONAL COLD WAR CENTER DESIGNATION.

    (a) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are--
            (1) to designate the museum located at Blytheville/Eaker 
        Air Force Base in Blytheville, Arkansas, including its future 
        and expanded exhibits, collections, and educational programs, 
        as a ``National Cold War Center'';
            (2) to recognize the preservation, maintenance, and 
        interpretation of the artifacts, documents, images, and history 
        collected by the Center;
            (3) to enhance the knowledge of the American people of the 
        experience of the United States during the Cold War years; and
            (4) to ensure that all future generations understand the 
        sacrifices made to preserve freedom and democracy, and the 
        benefits of peace for all future generations in the 21st 
        century and beyond.
    (b) Designation.--
            (1) In general.--The museum located at Blytheville/Eaker 
        Air Force Base in Blytheville, Arkansas, is designated as a 
        ``National Cold War Center''.
            (2) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this section shall 
        preclude the designation of other national centers or museums 
        in the United States interpreting the Cold War.
    (c) Effect of Designation.--The National Cold War Center designated 
by this section is not a unit of the National Park System, and the 
designation of the center as a National Cold War Center shall not be 
construed to require or permit Federal funds to be expended for any 
purpose related to the designation made by this section.

SEC. 1090G. SEMICONDUCTOR PROGRAM.

    Title XCIX of division H of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (15 U.S.C. 4651 
et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 9902 (15 U.S.C. 4652)--
                    (A) by redesignating subsections (h) and (i) as 
                subsections (i) and (j), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after subsection (g) the 
                following:
    ``(h) Authority Relating to Environmental Review.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, the provision by the Secretary of Federal financial 
        assistance for a project described in this section that 
        satisfies the requirements under subsection (a)(2)(C)(i) of 
        this section shall not be considered to be a major Federal 
        action under NEPA or an undertaking for the purposes of 
        division A of subtitle III of title 54, United States Code, 
        if--
                    ``(A) the activity described in the application for 
                that project has commenced not later than 1 year after 
                the date of enactment of the National Defense 
                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024;
                    ``(B) the Federal financial assistance provided is 
                in the form of a loan or loan guarantee; or
                    ``(C) the Federal financial assistance provided, 
                excluding any loan or loan guarantee, comprises not 
                more than 10 percent of the total estimated cost of the 
                project.
            ``(2) Savings clause.--Nothing in this subsection may be 
        construed as altering whether an activity described in 
        subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of paragraph (1) is considered to 
        be a major Federal action under NEPA, or an undertaking under 
        division A of subtitle III of title 54, United States Code, for 
        a reason other than that the activity is eligible for Federal 
        financial assistance provided under this section.''; and
            (2) in section 9909 (15 U.S.C. 4659), by adding at the end 
        the following:
    ``(c) Lead Federal Agency and Cooperating Agencies.--
            ``(1) Definition.--In this subsection, the term `lead 
        agency' has the meaning given the term in section 111 of NEPA.
            ``(2) Option to serve as lead agency.--With respect to a 
        covered activity that is a major Federal action under NEPA, and 
        with respect to which the Department of Commerce is authorized 
        or required by law to issue an authorization or take action for 
        or relating to that covered activity, the Department of 
        Commerce shall have the first right to serve as the lead agency 
        with respect to that covered activity under NEPA.
    ``(d) Categorical Exclusions.--
            ``(1) Establishment of categorical exclusions.--Each of the 
        following categorical exclusions is established for the 
        National Institute of Standards and Technology with respect to 
        a covered activity and, beginning on the date of enactment of 
        this subsection, is available for use by the Secretary with 
        respect to a covered activity:
                    ``(A) Categorical exclusion 17.04.d (relating to 
                the acquisition of machinery and equipment) in the 
                document entitled `EDA Program to Implement the 
                National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and Other 
                Federal Environmental Mandates As Required' (Directive 
                No. 17.02-2; effective date October 14, 1992).
                    ``(B) Categorical exclusion A9 in Appendix A to 
                subpart D of part 1021 of title 10, Code of Federal 
                Regulations, or any successor regulation.
                    ``(C) Categorical exclusions B1.24, B1.31, B2.5, 
                and B5.1 in Appendix B to subpart D of part 1021 of 
                title 10, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor 
                regulation.
                    ``(D) The categorical exclusions described in 
                paragraphs (4) and (13) of section 50.19(b) of title 
                24, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor 
                regulation.
                    ``(E) Categorical exclusion (c)(1) in Appendix B to 
                part 651 of title 32, Code of Federal Regulations, or 
                any successor regulation.
                    ``(F) Categorical exclusions A2.3.8 and A2.3.14 in 
                Appendix B to part 989 of title 32, Code of Federal 
                Regulations, or any successor regulation.
            ``(2) Additional categorical exclusions.--Notwithstanding 
        any other provision of law, each of the following shall be 
        treated as a category of action categorically excluded from the 
        requirements relating to environmental assessments and 
        environmental impact statements under section 1501.4 of title 
        40, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation:
                    ``(A) The provision by the Secretary of any Federal 
                financial assistance for a project described in section 
                9902, if the facility that is the subject of the 
                project is on or adjacent to a site--
                            ``(i) that is owned or leased by the 
                        covered entity to which Federal financial 
                        assistance is provided for that project; and
                            ``(ii) on which, as of the date on which 
                        the Secretary provides that Federal financial 
                        assistance, substantially similar construction, 
                        expansion, or modernization is being or has 
                        been carried out, such that the facility would 
                        not more than double existing developed acreage 
                        or on-site supporting infrastructure.
                    ``(B) The provision by the Secretary of Defense of 
                any Federal financial assistance relating to--
                            ``(i) the creation, expansion, or 
                        modernization of one or more facilities 
                        described in the second sentence of section 
                        9903(a)(1); or
                            ``(ii) carrying out section 9903(b), as in 
                        effect on the date of enactment of this 
                        subsection.
                    ``(C) Any activity undertaken by the Secretary 
                relating to carrying out section 9906, as in effect on 
                the date of enactment of this subsection.
    ``(e) Incorporation of Prior Planning Decisions.--
            ``(1) Definition.--In this subsection, the term `prior 
        studies and decisions' means baseline data, planning documents, 
        studies, analyses, decisions, and documentation that a Federal 
        agency has completed for a project (or that have been completed 
        under the laws and procedures of a State or Indian Tribe), 
        including for determining the reasonable range of alternatives 
        for that project.
            ``(2) Reliance on prior studies and decisions.--In 
        completing an environmental review under NEPA for a covered 
        activity, the Secretary may consider and, as appropriate, rely 
        on or adopt prior studies and decisions, if the Secretary 
        determines that--
                    ``(A) those prior studies and decisions meet the 
                standards for an adequate statement, assessment, or 
                determination under applicable procedures of the 
                Department of Commerce implementing the requirements of 
                NEPA;
                    ``(B) in the case of prior studies and decisions 
                completed under the laws and procedures of a State or 
                Indian Tribe, those laws and procedures are of equal or 
                greater rigor than those of each applicable Federal 
                law, including NEPA, implementing procedures of the 
                Department of Commerce; or
                    ``(C) if applicable, the prior studies and 
                decisions are informed by other analysis or 
                documentation that would have been prepared if the 
                prior studies and decisions were prepared by the 
                Secretary under NEPA.
    ``(f) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Covered activity.--The term `covered activity' means 
        any activity relating to the construction, expansion, or 
        modernization of a facility, the investment in which is 
        eligible for Federal financial assistance under section 9902 or 
        9906.
            ``(2) NEPA.--The term `NEPA' means the National 
        Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).''.

SEC. 1090H. PROHIBITION OF DEMAND FOR BRIBE.

    Section 201 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting a semicolon; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) the term `foreign official' means--
                    ``(A)(i) any official or employee of a foreign 
                government or any department, agency, or 
                instrumentality thereof; or
                    ``(ii) any senior foreign political figure, as 
                defined in section 1010.605 of title 31, Code of 
                Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation;
                    ``(B) any official or employee of a public 
                international organization;
                    ``(C) any person acting in an official capacity for 
                or on behalf of--
                            ``(i) a government, department, agency, or 
                        instrumentality described in subparagraph 
                        (A)(i); or
                            ``(ii) a public international organization; 
                        or
                    ``(D) any person acting in an unofficial capacity 
                for or on behalf of--
                            ``(i) a government, department, agency, or 
                        instrumentality described in subparagraph 
                        (A)(i); or
                            ``(ii) a public international organization; 
                        and
            ``(5) the term `public international organization' means--
                    ``(A) an organization that is designated by 
                Executive order pursuant to section 1 of the 
                International Organizations Immunities Act (22 U.S.C. 
                288); or
                    ``(B) any other international organization that is 
                designated by the President by Executive order for the 
                purposes of this section, effective as of the date of 
                publication of such order in the Federal Register.''; 
                and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f) Prohibition of Demand for a Bribe.--
            ``(1) Offense.--It shall be unlawful for any foreign 
        official or person selected to be a foreign official to 
        corruptly demand, seek, receive, accept, or agree to receive or 
        accept, directly or indirectly, anything of value personally or 
        for any other person or nongovernmental entity, by making use 
        of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate 
        commerce, from any person (as defined in section 104A of the 
        Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (15 U.S.C. 78dd-3), 
        except that that definition shall be applied without regard to 
        whether the person is an offender) while in the territory of 
        the United States, from an issuer (as defined in section 3(a) 
        of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a))), or 
        from a domestic concern (as defined in section 104 of the 
        Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (15 U.S.C. 78dd-2)), in 
        return for--
                    ``(A) being influenced in the performance of any 
                official act;
                    ``(B) being induced to do or omit to do any act in 
                violation of the official duty of such foreign official 
                or person; or
                    ``(C) conferring any improper advantage,
        in connection with obtaining or retaining business for or with, 
        or directing business to, any person.
            ``(2) Penalties.--Any person who violates paragraph (1) 
        shall be fined not more than $250,000 or 3 times the monetary 
        equivalent of the thing of value, imprisoned for not more than 
        15 years, or both.
            ``(3) Jurisdiction.--An offense under paragraph (1) shall 
        be subject to extraterritorial Federal jurisdiction.
            ``(4) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of the Foreign Extortion Prevention Act, and annually 
        thereafter, the Attorney General, in consultation with the 
        Secretary of State as relevant, shall submit to the Committee 
        on the Judiciary and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
        Senate and the Committee on the Judiciary and the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and post on 
        the publicly available website of the Department of Justice, a 
        report--
                    ``(A) focusing, in part, on demands by foreign 
                officials for bribes from entities domiciled or 
                incorporated in the United States, and the efforts of 
                foreign governments to prosecute such cases;
                    ``(B) addressing United States diplomatic efforts 
                to protect entities domiciled or incorporated in the 
                United States from foreign bribery, and the 
                effectiveness of those efforts in protecting such 
                entities;
                    ``(C) summarizing major actions taken under this 
                section in the previous year, including enforcement 
                actions taken and penalties imposed;
                    ``(D) evaluating the effectiveness of the 
                Department of Justice in enforcing this section; and
                    ``(E) detailing what resources or legislative 
                action the Department of Justice needs to ensure 
                adequate enforcement of this section.
            ``(5) Rule of construction.--This subsection shall not be 
        construed as encompassing conduct that would violate section 
        30A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78dd-1) 
        or section 104 or 104A of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 
        1977 (15 U.S.C. 78dd-2; 15 U.S.C. 78dd-3) whether pursuant to a 
        theory of direct liability, conspiracy, complicity, or 
        otherwise.''.

SEC. 1090I. STUDIES AND REPORTS ON TREATMENT OF SERVICE OF CERTAIN 
              MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES WHO SERVED IN FEMALE CULTURAL 
              SUPPORT TEAMS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) In 2010, the Commander of United States Special 
        Operations Command established the Cultural Support Team 
        Program to overcome significant intelligence gaps during the 
        Global War on Terror.
            (2) From 2010 through 2021, approximately 310 female 
        members, from every Armed Force, passed and were selected as 
        members of female cultural support teams, and deployed with 
        special operations forces.
            (3) Members of female cultural support teams served 
        honorably, demonstrated commendable courage, overcame such 
        intelligence gaps, engaged in direct action, and suffered 
        casualties during the Global War on Terror.
            (4) The Federal Government has a duty to recognize members 
        and veterans of female cultural support teams who volunteered 
        to join the Armed Forces, to undergo arduous training for 
        covered service, and to execute dangerous and classified 
        missions in the course of such covered service.
            (5) Members who performed covered service have sought 
        treatment from the Department of Veterans Affairs for traumatic 
        brain injuries, post-traumatic stress, and disabling physical 
        trauma incurred in the course of such covered service, but have 
        been denied such care.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the Sense of Congress that--
            (1) individuals who performed covered service performed 
        exceptional service to the United States; and
            (2) the Secretary of Defense should ensure that the 
        performance of covered service is included in the military 
        service record of each individual who performed covered service 
        so that those with service-connected injuries can receive 
        proper care and benefits for their service.
    (c) Secretary of Defense Study and Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than March 31, 2024, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall--
                    (A) carry out a study on the treatment of covered 
                service for purposes of retired pay under laws 
                administered by the Secretary; and
                    (B) submit to the appropriate committees of 
                Congress a report on the findings of the Secretary with 
                respect to the study carried out under paragraph (1).
            (2) List.--The report submitted under paragraph (1)(B) 
        shall include a list of each individual who performed covered 
        service whose military service record should be modified on 
        account of covered service.
    (d) Secretary of Veterans Affairs Study and Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than March 31, 2024, the 
        Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall--
                    (A) carry out a study on the treatment of covered 
                service for purposes of compensation under laws 
                administered by the Secretary; and
                    (B) submit to the appropriate committees of 
                Congress a report on the findings of the Secretary with 
                respect to the study carried out under paragraph (1).
            (2) Contents.--The report submitted under paragraph (1)(B) 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) A list of each veteran who performed covered 
                service whose claim for disability compensation under a 
                law administered by the Secretary was denied due to the 
                inability of the Department of Veterans Affairs to 
                determine the injury was service-connected.
                    (B) An estimate of the cost that would be incurred 
                by the Department to provide veterans described in 
                subparagraph (A) with the health care and benefits they 
                are entitled to under the laws administered by the 
                Secretary on account of their covered service.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) Covered service.--The term ``covered service'' means 
        service--
                    (A) as a member of the Armed Forces;
                    (B) in a female cultural support team;
                    (C) with the personnel development skill identifier 
                of R2J or 5DK, or any other validation methods, such as 
                valid sworn statements, officer and enlisted 
                performance evaluations, training certificates, or 
                records of an award from completion of tour with a 
                cultural support team; and
                    (D) during the period beginning on January 1, 2010, 
                and ending on August 31, 2021.

SEC. 1090J. GLOBAL COOPERATIVE FRAMEWORK TO END HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES IN 
              SOURCING CRITICAL MINERALS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of State shall seek to convene a 
meeting of foreign leaders to establish a multilateral framework to end 
human rights abuses, including the exploitation of forced labor and 
child labor, related to the mining and sourcing of critical minerals.
    (b) Implementation Report.--The Secretary shall lead the 
development of an annual global report on the implementation of the 
framework under subsection (a), including progress and recommendations 
to fully end human rights abuses, including the exploitation of forced 
labor and child labor, related to the extraction of critical minerals 
around the world.
    (c) Consultations.--The Secretary shall consult closely on a timely 
basis with the following with respect to developing and implementing 
the framework under subsection (a):
            (1) The Forced Labor Enforcement Task Force established 
        under section 741 of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement 
        Implementation Act (19 U.S.C. 4681); and
            (2) Congress.
    (d) Relationship to United States Law.--Nothing in the framework 
under subsection (a) shall be construed--
            (1) to amend or modify any law of the United States; or
            (2) to limit any authority conferred under any law of the 
        United States.
    (e) Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative and Certain 
Provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection 
Act.--Nothing in this section shall--
            (1) affect the authority of the President to take any 
        action to join and subsequently comply with the terms and 
        obligations of the Extractive Industries Transparency 
        Initiative (EITI); or
            (2) affect section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street 
        Reform and Consumer Protection Act (15 U.S.C. 78m note), or 
        subsection (q) of section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 
        1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m), as added by section 1504 of the Dodd-
        Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Public 
        Law 111-203; 124 Stat. 2220), or any rule prescribed under 
        either such section.
    (f) Critical Mineral Defined.--In this section, the term ``critical 
mineral'' has the meaning given the term in section 7002(a) of the 
Energy Act of 2020 (30 U.S.C. 1606(a)).

SEC. 1090K. READMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR SERVICEMEMBERS.

    Section 484C(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
1091c(a)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Definition of Service in the Uniformed Services.--In this 
section, the term `service in the uniformed services' means service 
(whether voluntary or involuntary) on active duty in the Armed Forces, 
including such service by a member of the National Guard or Reserve.''.

                       Subtitle H--Drone Security

SEC. 1091. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``American Security Drone Act of 
2023''.

SEC. 1092. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Covered foreign entity.--The term ``covered foreign 
        entity'' means an entity included on a list developed and 
        maintained by the Federal Acquisition Security Council and 
        published in the System for Award Management (SAM). This list 
        will include entities in the following categories:
                    (A) An entity included on the Consolidated 
                Screening List.
                    (B) Any entity that is subject to extrajudicial 
                direction from a foreign government, as determined by 
                the Secretary of Homeland Security.
                    (C) Any entity the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
                in coordination with the Attorney General, Director of 
                National Intelligence, and the Secretary of Defense, 
                determines poses a national security risk.
                    (D) Any entity domiciled in the People's Republic 
                of China or subject to influence or control by the 
                Government of the People's Republic of China or the 
                Communist Party of the People's Republic of China, as 
                determined by the Secretary of Homeland Security.
                    (E) Any subsidiary or affiliate of an entity 
                described in subparagraphs (A) through (D).
            (2) Covered unmanned aircraft system.--The term ``covered 
        unmanned aircraft system'' has the meaning given the term 
        ``unmanned aircraft system'' in section 44801 of title 49, 
        United States Code.
            (3) Intelligence; intelligence community.--The terms 
        ``intelligence'' and ``intelligence community'' have the 
        meanings given those terms in section 3 of the National 
        Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).

SEC. 1093. PROHIBITION ON PROCUREMENT OF COVERED UNMANNED AIRCRAFT 
              SYSTEMS FROM COVERED FOREIGN ENTITIES.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided under subsections (b) through 
(f), the head of an executive agency may not procure any covered 
unmanned aircraft system that is manufactured or assembled by a covered 
foreign entity, which includes associated elements related to the 
collection and transmission of sensitive information (consisting of 
communication links and the components that control the unmanned 
aircraft) that enable the operator to operate the aircraft in the 
National Airspace System. The Federal Acquisition Security Council, in 
coordination with the Secretary of Transportation, shall develop and 
update a list of associated elements.
    (b) Exemption.--The Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary 
of Defense, the Director of National Intelligence, and the Attorney 
General are exempt from the restriction under subsection (a) if the 
procurement is required in the national interest of the United States 
and--
            (1) is for the sole purposes of research, evaluation, 
        training, testing, or analysis for electronic warfare, 
        information warfare operations, cybersecurity, or development 
        of unmanned aircraft system or counter-unmanned aircraft system 
        technology;
            (2) is for the sole purposes of conducting counterterrorism 
        or counterintelligence activities, protective missions, or 
        Federal criminal or national security investigations, including 
        forensic examinations, or for electronic warfare, information 
        warfare operations, cybersecurity, or development of an 
        unmanned aircraft system or counter-unmanned aircraft system 
        technology; or
            (3) is an unmanned aircraft system that, as procured or as 
        modified after procurement but before operational use, can no 
        longer transfer to, or download data from, a covered foreign 
        entity and otherwise poses no national security cybersecurity 
        risks as determined by the exempting official.
    (c) Department of Transportation and Federal Aviation 
Administration Exemption.--The Secretary of Transportation is exempt 
from the restriction under subsection (a) if the operation or 
procurement is deemed to support the safe, secure, or efficient 
operation of the National Airspace System or maintenance of public 
safety, including activities carried out under the Federal Aviation 
Administration's Alliance for System Safety of UAS through Research 
Excellence (ASSURE) Center of Excellence (COE) and any other activity 
deemed to support the safe, secure, or efficient operation of the 
National Airspace System or maintenance of public safety, as determined 
by the Secretary or the Secretary's designee.
    (d) National Transportation Safety Board Exemption.--The National 
Transportation Safety Board, in consultation with the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, is exempt from the restriction under subsection (a) 
if the operation or procurement is necessary for the sole purpose of 
conducting safety investigations.
    (e) National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Exemption.--The 
Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
(NOAA), in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, is 
exempt from the restriction under subsection (a) if the procurement is 
necessary for the purpose of meeting NOAA's science or management 
objectives or operational mission.
    (f) Waiver.--The head of an executive agency may waive the 
prohibition under subsection (a) on a case-by-case basis--
            (1) with the approval of the Director of the Office of 
        Management and Budget, after consultation with the Federal 
        Acquisition Security Council; and
            (2) upon notification to--
                    (A) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on Oversight and Reform in the 
                House of Representatives; and
                    (C) other appropriate congressional committees of 
                jurisdiction.

SEC. 1094. PROHIBITION ON OPERATION OF COVERED UNMANNED AIRCRAFT 
              SYSTEMS FROM COVERED FOREIGN ENTITIES.

    (a) Prohibition.--
            (1) In general.--Beginning on the date that is two years 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act, no Federal 
        department or agency may operate a covered unmanned aircraft 
        system manufactured or assembled by a covered foreign entity.
            (2) Applicability to contracted services.--The prohibition 
        under paragraph (1) applies to any covered unmanned aircraft 
        systems that are being used by any executive agency through the 
        method of contracting for the services of covered unmanned 
        aircraft systems.
    (b) Exemption.--The Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary 
of Defense, the Director of National Intelligence, and the Attorney 
General are exempt from the restriction under subsection (a) if the 
operation is required in the national interest of the United States 
and--
            (1) is for the sole purposes of research, evaluation, 
        training, testing, or analysis for electronic warfare, 
        information warfare operations, cybersecurity, or development 
        of unmanned aircraft system or counter-unmanned aircraft system 
        technology;
            (2) is for the sole purposes of conducting counterterrorism 
        or counterintelligence activities, protective missions, or 
        Federal criminal or national security investigations, including 
        forensic examinations, or for electronic warfare, information 
        warfare operations, cybersecurity, or development of an 
        unmanned aircraft system or counter-unmanned aircraft system 
        technology; or
            (3) is an unmanned aircraft system that, as procured or as 
        modified after procurement but before operational use, can no 
        longer transfer to, or download data from, a covered foreign 
        entity and otherwise poses no national security cybersecurity 
        risks as determined by the exempting official.
    (c) Department of Transportation and Federal Aviation 
Administration Exemption.--The Secretary of Transportation is exempt 
from the restriction under subsection (a) if the operation is deemed to 
support the safe, secure, or efficient operation of the National 
Airspace System or maintenance of public safety, including activities 
carried out under the Federal Aviation Administration's Alliance for 
System Safety of UAS through Research Excellence (ASSURE) Center of 
Excellence (COE) and any other activity deemed to support the safe, 
secure, or efficient operation of the National Airspace System or 
maintenance of public safety, as determined by the Secretary or the 
Secretary's designee.
    (d) National Transportation Safety Board Exemption.--The National 
Transportation Safety Board, in consultation with the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, is exempt from the restriction under subsection (a) 
if the operation is necessary for the sole purpose of conducting safety 
investigations.
    (e) National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Exemption.--The 
Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
(NOAA), in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, is 
exempt from the restriction under subsection (a) if the procurement is 
necessary for the purpose of meeting NOAA's science or management 
objectives or operational mission.
    (f) Waiver.--The head of an executive agency may waive the 
prohibition under subsection (a) on a case-by-case basis--
            (1) with the approval of the Director of the Office of 
        Management and Budget, after consultation with the Federal 
        Acquisition Security Council; and
            (2) upon notification to--
                    (A) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on Oversight and Reform in the 
                House of Representatives; and
                    (C) other appropriate congressional committees of 
                jurisdiction.
    (g) Regulations and Guidance.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of 
Transportation, shall prescribe regulations or guidance to implement 
this section.

SEC. 1095. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FEDERAL FUNDS FOR PROCUREMENT AND 
              OPERATION OF COVERED UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS FROM 
              COVERED FOREIGN ENTITIES.

    (a) In General.--Beginning on the date that is two years after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, except as provided in subsection 
(b), no Federal funds awarded through a contract, grant, or cooperative 
agreement, or otherwise made available may be used--
            (1) to procure a covered unmanned aircraft system that is 
        manufactured or assembled by a covered foreign entity; or
            (2) in connection with the operation of such a drone or 
        unmanned aircraft system.
    (b) Exemption.--The Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary 
of Defense, the Director of National Intelligence, and the Attorney 
General are exempt from the restriction under subsection (a) if the 
procurement or operation is required in the national interest of the 
United States and--
            (1) is for the sole purposes of research, evaluation, 
        training, testing, or analysis for electronic warfare, 
        information warfare operations, cybersecurity, or development 
        of unmanned aircraft system or counter-unmanned aircraft system 
        technology;
            (2) is for the sole purposes of conducting counterterrorism 
        or counterintelligence activities, protective missions, or 
        Federal criminal or national security investigations, including 
        forensic examinations, or for electronic warfare, information 
        warfare operations, cybersecurity, or development of an 
        unmanned aircraft system or counter-unmanned aircraft system 
        technology; or
            (3) is an unmanned aircraft system that, as procured or as 
        modified after procurement but before operational use, can no 
        longer transfer to, or download data from, a covered foreign 
        entity and otherwise poses no national security cybersecurity 
        risks as determined by the exempting official.
    (c) Department of Transportation and Federal Aviation 
Administration Exemption.--The Secretary of Transportation is exempt 
from the restriction under subsection (a) if the operation or 
procurement is deemed to support the safe, secure, or efficient 
operation of the National Airspace System or maintenance of public 
safety, including activities carried out under the Federal Aviation 
Administration's Alliance for System Safety of UAS through Research 
Excellence (ASSURE) Center of Excellence (COE) and any other activity 
deemed to support the safe, secure, or efficient operation of the 
National Airspace System or maintenance of public safety, as determined 
by the Secretary or the Secretary's designee.
    (d) National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Exemption.--The 
Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
(NOAA), in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, is 
exempt from the restriction under subsection (a) if the operation or 
procurement is necessary for the purpose of meeting NOAA's science or 
management objectives or operational mission.
    (e) Waiver.--The head of an executive agency may waive the 
prohibition under subsection (a) on a case-by-case basis--
            (1) with the approval of the Director of the Office of 
        Management and Budget, after consultation with the Federal 
        Acquisition Security Council; and
            (2) upon notification to--
                    (A) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on Oversight and Reform in the 
                House of Representatives; and
                    (C) other appropriate congressional committees of 
                jurisdiction.
    (f) Regulations.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council shall 
prescribe regulations or guidance, as necessary, to implement the 
requirements of this section pertaining to Federal contracts.

SEC. 1096. PROHIBITION ON USE OF GOVERNMENT-ISSUED PURCHASE CARDS TO 
              PURCHASE COVERED UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS FROM COVERED 
              FOREIGN ENTITIES.

    Effective immediately, Government-issued Purchase Cards may not be 
used to procure any covered unmanned aircraft system from a covered 
foreign entity.

SEC. 1097. MANAGEMENT OF EXISTING INVENTORIES OF COVERED UNMANNED 
              AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS FROM COVERED FOREIGN ENTITIES.

    (a) In General.--All executive agencies must account for existing 
inventories of covered unmanned aircraft systems manufactured or 
assembled by a covered foreign entity in their personal property 
accounting systems, within one year of the date of enactment of this 
Act, regardless of the original procurement cost, or the purpose of 
procurement due to the special monitoring and accounting measures 
necessary to track the items' capabilities.
    (b) Classified Tracking.--Due to the sensitive nature of missions 
and operations conducted by the United States Government, inventory 
data related to covered unmanned aircraft systems manufactured or 
assembled by a covered foreign entity may be tracked at a classified 
level, as determined by the Secretary of Homeland Security or the 
Secretary's designee.
    (c) Exceptions.--The Department of Defense, the Department of 
Homeland Security, the Department of Justice, the Department of 
Transportation, and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
may exclude from the full inventory process, covered unmanned aircraft 
systems that are deemed expendable due to mission risk such as recovery 
issues, or that are one-time-use covered unmanned aircraft due to 
requirements and low cost.

SEC. 1098. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT.

    Not later than 275 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to 
Congress a report on the amount of commercial off-the-shelf drones and 
covered unmanned aircraft systems procured by Federal departments and 
agencies from covered foreign entities.

SEC. 1099. GOVERNMENT-WIDE POLICY FOR PROCUREMENT OF UNMANNED AIRCRAFT 
              SYSTEMS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget, in coordination with the Department of Homeland Security, 
Department of Transportation, the Department of Justice, and other 
Departments as determined by the Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget, and in consultation with the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology, shall establish a government-wide policy for 
the procurement of an unmanned aircraft system--
            (1) for non-Department of Defense and non-intelligence 
        community operations; and
            (2) through grants and cooperative agreements entered into 
        with non-Federal entities.
    (b) Information Security.--The policy developed under subsection 
(a) shall include the following specifications, which to the extent 
practicable, shall be based on industry standards and technical 
guidance from the National Institute of Standards and Technology, to 
address the risks associated with processing, storing, and transmitting 
Federal information in an unmanned aircraft system:
            (1) Protections to ensure controlled access to an unmanned 
        aircraft system.
            (2) Protecting software, firmware, and hardware by ensuring 
        changes to an unmanned aircraft system are properly managed, 
        including by ensuring an unmanned aircraft system can be 
        updated using a secure, controlled, and configurable mechanism.
            (3) Cryptographically securing sensitive collected, stored, 
        and transmitted data, including proper handling of privacy data 
        and other controlled unclassified information.
            (4) Appropriate safeguards necessary to protect sensitive 
        information, including during and after use of an unmanned 
        aircraft system.
            (5) Appropriate data security to ensure that data is not 
        transmitted to or stored in non-approved locations.
            (6) The ability to opt out of the uploading, downloading, 
        or transmitting of data that is not required by law or 
        regulation and an ability to choose with whom and where 
        information is shared when it is required.
    (c) Requirement.--The policy developed under subsection (a) shall 
reflect an appropriate risk-based approach to information security 
related to use of an unmanned aircraft system.
    (d) Revision of Acquisition Regulations.--Not later than 180 days 
after the date on which the policy required under subsection (a) is 
issued--
            (1) the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council shall revise 
        the Federal Acquisition Regulation, as necessary, to implement 
        the policy; and
            (2) any Federal department or agency or other Federal 
        entity not subject to, or not subject solely to, the Federal 
        Acquisition Regulation shall revise applicable policy, 
        guidance, or regulations, as necessary, to implement the 
        policy.
    (e) Exemption.--In developing the policy required under subsection 
(a), the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall--
            (1) incorporate policies to implement the exemptions 
        contained in this subtitle; and
            (2) incorporate an exemption to the policy in the case of a 
        head of the procuring department or agency determining, in 
        writing, that no product that complies with the information 
        security requirements described in subsection (b) is capable of 
        fulfilling mission critical performance requirements, and such 
        determination--
                    (A) may not be delegated below the level of the 
                Deputy Secretary, or Administrator, of the procuring 
                department or agency;
                    (B) shall specify--
                            (i) the quantity of end items to which the 
                        waiver applies and the procurement value of 
                        those items; and
                            (ii) the time period over which the waiver 
                        applies, which shall not exceed three years;
                    (C) shall be reported to the Office of Management 
                and Budget following issuance of such a determination; 
                and
                    (D) not later than 30 days after the date on which 
                the determination is made, shall be provided to the 
                Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
                of the Senate and the Committee on Oversight and Reform 
                of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 1099A. STATE, LOCAL, AND TERRITORIAL LAW ENFORCEMENT AND EMERGENCY 
              SERVICE EXEMPTION.

    (a) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this subtitle shall prevent a 
State, local, or territorial law enforcement or emergency service 
agency from procuring or operating a covered unmanned aircraft system 
purchased with non-Federal dollars.
    (b) Continuity of Arrangements.--The Federal Government may 
continue entering into contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements or 
other Federal funding instruments with State, local, or territorial law 
enforcement or emergency service agencies under which a covered 
unmanned aircraft system will be purchased or operated if the agency 
has received approval or waiver to purchase or operate a covered 
unmanned aircraft system pursuant to section 1095.

SEC. 1099B. STUDY.

    (a) Study on the Supply Chain for Unmanned Aircraft Systems and 
Components.--
            (1) Report required.--Not later than one year after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall provide to the 
        appropriate congressional committees a report on the supply 
        chain for covered unmanned aircraft systems, including a 
        discussion of current and projected future demand for covered 
        unmanned aircraft systems.
            (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include 
        the following:
                    (A) A description of the current and future global 
                and domestic market for covered unmanned aircraft 
                systems that are not widely commercially available 
                except from a covered foreign entity.
                    (B) A description of the sustainability, 
                availability, cost, and quality of secure sources of 
                covered unmanned aircraft systems domestically and from 
                sources in allied and partner countries.
                    (C) The plan of the Secretary of Defense to address 
                any gaps or deficiencies identified in subparagraph 
                (B), including through the use of funds available under 
                the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4501 et 
                seq.) and partnerships with the National Aeronautics 
                and Space Administration and other interested persons.
                    (D) Such other information as the Under Secretary 
                of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment determines 
                to be appropriate.
            (3) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
        section the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
        means:
                    (A) The Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
                and the House of Representatives.
                    (B) The Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
                Oversight and Reform of the House of Representatives.
                    (C) The Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on 
                Science, Space, and Technology of the House of 
                Representatives.
                    (D) The Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
                Senate and the Permanent Select Committee on 
                Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
                    (E) The Committee on Transportation and 
                Infrastructure of the House of Representatives.
                    (F) The Committee on Homeland Security of the House 
                of Representatives.

SEC. 1099C. EXCEPTIONS.

    (a) Exception for Wildfire Management Operations and Search and 
Rescue Operations.--The appropriate Federal agencies, in consultation 
with the Secretary of Homeland Security, are exempt from the 
procurement and operation restrictions under sections 1093, 1094, and 
1095 to the extent the procurement or operation is necessary for the 
purpose of supporting the full range of wildfire management operations 
or search and rescue operations.
    (b) Exception for Intelligence Activities.--The elements of the 
intelligence community, in consultation with the Director of National 
Intelligence, are exempt from the procurement and operation 
restrictions under sections 1093, 1094, and 1095 to the extent the 
procurement or operation is necessary for the purpose of supporting 
intelligence activities.
    (c) Exception for Tribal Law Enforcement or Emergency Service 
Agency.--Tribal law enforcement or Tribal emergency service agencies, 
in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, are exempt 
from the procurement, operation, and purchase restrictions under 
sections 1093, 1094, and 1095 to the extent the procurement or 
operation is necessary for the purpose of supporting the full range of 
law enforcement operations or search and rescue operations on Indian 
lands.

SEC. 1099D. SUNSET.

    Sections 1093, 1094, and 1095 shall cease to have effect on the 
date that is five years after the date of the enactment of this Act.

            Subtitle I--Radiation Exposure Compensation Act

                    PART I--MANHATTAN PROJECT WASTE

SEC. 1099AA. CLAIMS RELATING TO MANHATTAN PROJECT WASTE.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Radiation 
Exposure Compensation Expansion Act''.
    (b) Claims Relating to Manhattan Project Waste.--The Radiation 
Exposure Compensation Act (Public Law 101-426; 42 U.S.C. 2210 note) is 
amended by inserting after section 5 the following:

``SEC. 5A. CLAIMS RELATING TO MANHATTAN PROJECT WASTE.

    ``(a) In General.--A claimant shall receive compensation for a 
claim made under this Act, as described in subsection (b) or (c), if--
            ``(1) a claim for compensation is filed with the Attorney 
        General--
                    ``(A) by an individual described in paragraph (2); 
                or
                    ``(B) on behalf of that individual by an authorized 
                agent of that individual, if the individual is deceased 
                or incapacitated, such as--
                            ``(i) an executor of estate of that 
                        individual; or
                            ``(ii) a legal guardian or conservator of 
                        that individual;
            ``(2) that individual, or if applicable, an authorized 
        agent of that individual, demonstrates that the individual--
                    ``(A) was physically present in an affected area 
                for a period of at least 2 years after January 1, 1949; 
                and
                    ``(B) contracted a specified disease after such 
                period of physical presence;
            ``(3) the Attorney General certifies that the identity of 
        that individual, and if applicable, the authorized agent of 
        that individual, is not fraudulent or otherwise misrepresented; 
        and
            ``(4) the Attorney General determines that the claimant has 
        satisfied the applicable requirements of this Act.
    ``(b) Losses Available to Living Affected Individuals.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the event of a claim qualifying for 
        compensation under subsection (a) that is submitted to the 
        Attorney General to be eligible for compensation under this 
        section at a time when the individual described in subsection 
        (a)(2) is living, the amount of compensation under this section 
        shall be in an amount that is the greater of $50,000 or the 
        total amount of compensation for which the individual is 
        eligible under paragraph (2).
            ``(2) Losses due to medical expenses.--A claimant described 
        in paragraph (1) shall be eligible to receive, upon submission 
        of contemporaneous written medical records, reports, or billing 
        statements created by or at the direction of a licensed medical 
        professional who provided contemporaneous medical care to the 
        claimant, additional compensation in the amount of all 
        documented out-of-pocket medical expenses incurred as a result 
        of the specified disease suffered by that claimant, such as any 
        medical expenses not covered, paid for, or reimbursed through--
                    ``(A) any public or private health insurance;
                    ``(B) any employee health insurance;
                    ``(C) any workers' compensation program; or
                    ``(D) any other public, private, or employee health 
                program or benefit.
    ``(c) Payments to Beneficiaries of Deceased Individuals.--In the 
event that an individual described in subsection (a)(2) who qualifies 
for compensation under subsection (a) is deceased at the time of 
submission of the claim--
            ``(1) a surviving spouse may, upon submission of a claim 
        and records sufficient to satisfy the requirements of 
        subsection (a) with respect to the deceased individual, receive 
        compensation in the amount of $25,000; or
            ``(2) in the event that there is no surviving spouse, the 
        surviving children, minor or otherwise, of the deceased 
        individual may, upon submission of a claim and records 
        sufficient to satisfy the requirements of subsection (a) with 
        respect to the deceased individual, receive compensation in the 
        total amount of $25,000, paid in equal shares to each surviving 
        child.
    ``(d) Affected Area.--For purposes of this section, the term 
`affected area' means, in the State of Missouri, the ZIP Codes of 
63031, 63033, 63034, 63042, 63045, 63074, 63114, 63135, 63138, 63044, 
63140, 63145, 63147, 63102, 63304, 63134, 63043, 63341, 63368, and 
63367.
    ``(e) Specified Disease.--For purposes of this section, the term 
`specified disease' means any of the following:
            ``(1) Any leukemia, other than chronic lymphocytic 
        leukemia, provided that the initial exposure occurred after the 
        age of 20 and the onset of the disease was at least 2 years 
        after first exposure.
            ``(2) Any of the following diseases, provided that the 
        onset was at least 2 years after the initial exposure:
                    ``(A) Multiple myeloma.
                    ``(B) Lymphoma, other than Hodgkin's disease.
                    ``(C) Type 1 or type 2 diabetes.
                    ``(D) Systemic lupus erythematosus.
                    ``(E) Multiple sclerosis.
                    ``(F) Hashimoto's disease.
                    ``(G) Primary cancer of the--
                            ``(i) thyroid;
                            ``(ii) male or female breast;
                            ``(iii) esophagus;
                            ``(iv) stomach;
                            ``(v) pharynx;
                            ``(vi) small intestine;
                            ``(vii) pancreas;
                            ``(viii) bile ducts;
                            ``(ix) gall bladder;
                            ``(x) salivary gland;
                            ``(xi) urinary bladder;
                            ``(xii) brain;
                            ``(xiii) colon;
                            ``(xiv) ovary;
                            ``(xv) liver, except if cirrhosis or 
                        hepatitis B is indicated;
                            ``(xvi) lung;
                            ``(xvii) bone; or
                            ``(xviii) kidney.
    ``(f) Physical Presence.--For purposes of this section, the 
Attorney General shall not determine that a claimant has satisfied the 
requirements of subsection (a) unless demonstrated by submission of 
contemporaneous written residential documentation and at least one 
additional employer-issued or government-issued document or record that 
the claimant, for a period of at least 2 years after January 1, 1949, 
was physically present in an affected area.
    ``(g) Disease Contraction in Affected Areas.--For purposes of this 
section, the Attorney General shall not determine that a claimant has 
satisfied the requirements of subsection (a) unless demonstrated by 
submission of contemporaneous written medical records or reports 
created by or at the direction of a licensed medical professional who 
provided contemporaneous medical care to the claimant, that the 
claimant, after such period of physical presence, contracted a 
specified disease.''.

      PART II--COMPENSATION FOR WORKERS INVOLVED IN URANIUM MINING

SEC. 1099BB. SHORT TITLE.

    This part may be cited as the ``Radiation Exposure Compensation Act 
Amendments of 2023''.

SEC. 1099CC. REFERENCES.

    Except as otherwise specifically provided, whenever in this part an 
amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to or repeal 
of a section or other provision of law, the reference shall be 
considered to be made to a section or other provision of the Radiation 
Exposure Compensation Act (Public Law 101-426; 42 U.S.C. 2210 note).

SEC. 1099DD. EXTENSION OF FUND.

    Section 3(d) is amended--
            (1) by striking the first sentence and inserting ``The Fund 
        shall terminate 19 years after the date of the enactment of the 
        Radiation Exposure Compensation Act Amendments of 2023.''; and
            (2) by striking ``2-year'' and inserting ``19-year''.

SEC. 1099EE. CLAIMS RELATING TO ATMOSPHERIC TESTING.

    (a) Leukemia Claims Relating to Trinity Test in New Mexico and 
Tests at the Nevada Site and in the Pacific.--Section 4(a)(1)(A) is 
amended--
            (1) in clause (i)--
                    (A) in subclause (I), by striking ``October 31, 
                1958'' and inserting ``November 6, 1962'';
                    (B) in subclause (II)--
                            (i) by striking ``in the affected area'' 
                        and inserting ``in an affected area''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``or'' after the 
                        semicolon;
                    (C) by redesignating subclause (III) as subclause 
                (V); and
                    (D) by inserting after subclause (II) the 
                following:
                            ``(III) was physically present in an 
                        affected area for a period of at least 1 year 
                        during the period beginning on September 24, 
                        1944, and ending on November 6, 1962;
                            ``(IV) was physically present in an 
                        affected area--
                                    ``(aa) for a period of at least 1 
                                year during the period beginning on 
                                July 1, 1946, and ending on November 6, 
                                1962; or
                                    ``(bb) for the period beginning on 
                                April 25, 1962, and ending on November 
                                6, 1962; or''; and
            (2) in clause (ii)(I), by striking ``physical presence 
        described in subclause (I) or (II) of clause (i) or onsite 
        participation described in clause (i)(III)'' and inserting 
        ``physical presence described in subclause (I), (II), (III), or 
        (IV) of clause (i) or onsite participation described in clause 
        (i)(V)''.
    (b) Amounts for Claims Related to Leukemia.--Section 4(a)(1) is 
amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``an amount'' and 
        inserting ``the amount''; and
            (2) by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the 
        following:
                    ``(B) Amount.--If the conditions described in 
                subparagraph (C) are met, an individual who is 
                described in subparagraph (A) shall receive 
                $150,000.''.
    (c) Conditions for Claims Related to Leukemia.--Section 4(a)(1)(C) 
is amended--
            (1) by striking clause (i); and
            (2) by redesignating clauses (ii) and (iii) as clauses (i) 
        and (ii), respectively.
    (d) Specified Diseases Claims Relating to Trinity Test in New 
Mexico and Tests at the Nevada Site and in the Pacific.--Section 
4(a)(2) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)--
                    (A) by striking ``in the affected area'' and 
                inserting ``in an affected area'';
                    (B) by striking ``2 years'' and inserting ``1 
                year''; and
                    (C) by striking ``October 31, 1958'' and inserting 
                ``November 6, 1962'';
            (2) in subparagraph (B)--
                    (A) by striking ``in the affected area'' and 
                inserting ``in an affected area''; and
                    (B) by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (3) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (E); 
        and
            (4) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following:
                    ``(C) was physically present in an affected area 
                for a period of at least 1 year during the period 
                beginning on September 24, 1944, and ending on November 
                6, 1962;
                    ``(D) was physically present in an affected area--
                            ``(i) for a period of at least 1 year 
                        during the period beginning on July 1, 1946, 
                        and ending on November 6, 1962; or
                            ``(ii) for the period beginning on April 
                        25, 1962, and ending on November 6, 1962; or''.
    (e) Amounts for Claims Related to Specified Diseases.--Section 
4(a)(2) is amended in the matter following subparagraph (E) (as 
redesignated by subsection (d) of this section) by striking ``$50,000 
(in the case of an individual described in subparagraph (A) or (B)) or 
$75,000 (in the case of an individual described in subparagraph (C)),'' 
and inserting ``$150,000''.
    (f) Medical Benefits.--Section 4(a) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
            ``(5) Medical benefits.--An individual receiving a payment 
        under this section shall be eligible to receive medical 
        benefits in the same manner and to the same extent as an 
        individual eligible to receive medical benefits under section 
        3629 of the Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation 
        Program Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 7384t).''.
    (g) Downwind States.--Section 4(b)(1) is amended to read as 
follows:
            ``(1) `affected area' means--
                    ``(A) except as provided under subparagraphs (B) 
                and (C), Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New 
                Mexico, Utah, and Guam;
                    ``(B) with respect to a claim by an individual 
                under subsection (a)(1)(A)(i)(III) or subsection 
                (a)(2)(C), only New Mexico; and
                    ``(C) with respect to a claim by an individual 
                under subsection (a)(1)(A)(i)(IV) or subsection 
                (a)(2)(D), only Guam.''.
    (h) Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia as a Specified Disease.--Section 
4(b)(2) is amended by striking ``other than chronic lymphocytic 
leukemia'' and inserting ``including chronic lymphocytic leukemia''.

SEC. 1099FF. CLAIMS RELATING TO URANIUM MINING.

    (a) Employees of Mines and Mills.--Section 5(a)(1)(A)(i) is 
amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(I)'' after ``(i)'';
            (2) by striking ``December 31, 1971; and'' and inserting 
        ``December 31, 1990; or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(II) was employed as a core driller in a 
                        State referred to in subclause (I) during the 
                        period described in such subclause; and''.
    (b) Miners.--Section 5(a)(1)(A)(ii)(I) is amended by inserting ``or 
renal cancer or any other chronic renal disease, including nephritis 
and kidney tubal tissue injury'' after ``nonmalignant respiratory 
disease''.
    (c) Millers, Core Drillers, and Ore Transporters.--Section 
5(a)(1)(A)(ii)(II) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``, core driller,'' after ``was a 
        miller'';
            (2) by inserting ``, or was involved in remediation efforts 
        at such a uranium mine or uranium mill,'' after ``ore 
        transporter'';
            (3) by inserting ``(I)'' after ``clause (i)''; and
            (4) by striking all that follows ``nonmalignant respiratory 
        disease'' and inserting ``or renal cancer or any other chronic 
        renal disease, including nephritis and kidney tubal tissue 
        injury; or''.
    (d) Combined Work Histories.--Section 5(a)(1)(A)(ii) is further 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``or'' at the end of subclause (I); and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(III)(aa) does not meet the conditions of 
                        subclause (I) or (II);
                            ``(bb) worked, during the period described 
                        in clause (i)(I), in two or more of the 
                        following positions: miner, miller, core 
                        driller, and ore transporter;
                            ``(cc) meets the requirements of paragraph 
                        (4) or (5), or both; and
                            ``(dd) submits written medical 
                        documentation that the individual developed 
                        lung cancer or a nonmalignant respiratory 
                        disease or renal cancer or any other chronic 
                        renal disease, including nephritis and kidney 
                        tubal tissue injury after exposure to radiation 
                        through work in one or more of the positions 
                        referred to in item (bb);''.
    (e) Dates of Operation of Uranium Mine.--Section 5(a)(2)(A) is 
amended by striking ``December 31, 1971'' and inserting ``December 31, 
1990''.
    (f) Special Rules Relating to Combined Work Histories.--Section 
5(a) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Special rule relating to combined work histories for 
        individuals with at least one year of experience.--An 
        individual meets the requirements of this paragraph if the 
        individual worked in one or more of the positions referred to 
        in paragraph (1)(A)(ii)(III)(bb) for a period of at least one 
        year during the period described in paragraph (1)(A)(i)(I).
            ``(5) Special rule relating to combined work histories for 
        miners.--An individual meets the requirements of this paragraph 
        if the individual, during the period described in paragraph 
        (1)(A)(i)(I), worked as a miner and was exposed to such number 
        of working level months that the Attorney General determines, 
        when combined with the exposure of such individual to radiation 
        through work as a miller, core driller, or ore transporter 
        during the period described in paragraph (1)(A)(i)(I), results 
        in such individual being exposed to a total level of radiation 
        that is greater or equal to the level of exposure of an 
        individual described in paragraph (4).''.
    (g) Definition of Core Driller.--Section 5(b) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (7);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (8) and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(9) the term `core driller' means any individual employed 
        to engage in the act or process of obtaining cylindrical rock 
        samples of uranium or vanadium by means of a borehole drilling 
        machine for the purpose of mining uranium or vanadium.''.

SEC. 1099GG. EXPANSION OF USE OF AFFIDAVITS IN DETERMINATION OF CLAIMS; 
              REGULATIONS.

    (a) Affidavits.--Section 6(b) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
            ``(3) Affidavits.--
                    ``(A) Employment history.--For purposes of this 
                Act, the Attorney General shall accept a written 
                affidavit or declaration as evidence to substantiate 
                the employment history of an individual as a miner, 
                miller, core driller, or ore transporter if the 
                affidavit--
                            ``(i) is provided in addition to other 
                        material that may be used to substantiate the 
                        employment history of the individual;
                            ``(ii) attests to the employment history of 
                        the individual;
                            ``(iii) is made subject to penalty for 
                        perjury; and
                            ``(iv) is made by a person other than the 
                        individual filing the claim.
                    ``(B) Physical presence in affected area.--For 
                purposes of this Act, the Attorney General shall accept 
                a written affidavit or declaration as evidence to 
                substantiate an individual's physical presence in an 
                affected area during a period described in section 
                4(a)(1)(A)(i) or section 4(a)(2) if the affidavit--
                            ``(i) is provided in addition to other 
                        material that may be used to substantiate the 
                        individual's presence in an affected area 
                        during that time period;
                            ``(ii) attests to the individual's presence 
                        in an affected area during that period;
                            ``(iii) is made subject to penalty for 
                        perjury; and
                            ``(iv) is made by a person other than the 
                        individual filing the claim.
                    ``(C) Participation at testing site.--For purposes 
                of this Act, the Attorney General shall accept a 
                written affidavit or declaration as evidence to 
                substantiate an individual's participation onsite in a 
                test involving the atmospheric detonation of a nuclear 
                device if the affidavit--
                            ``(i) is provided in addition to other 
                        material that may be used to substantiate the 
                        individual's participation onsite in a test 
                        involving the atmospheric detonation of a 
                        nuclear device;
                            ``(ii) attests to the individual's 
                        participation onsite in a test involving the 
                        atmospheric detonation of a nuclear device;
                            ``(iii) is made subject to penalty for 
                        perjury; and
                            ``(iv) is made by a person other than the 
                        individual filing the claim.''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--Section 6 is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(2)(C), by striking ``section 
        4(a)(2)(C)'' and inserting ``section 4(a)(2)(E)'';
            (2) in subsection (c)(2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding clause (i), by 
                        striking ``subsection (a)(1), (a)(2)(A), or 
                        (a)(2)(B) of section 4'' and inserting 
                        ``subsection (a)(1), (a)(2)(A), (a)(2)(B), 
                        (a)(2)(C), or (a)(2)(D) of section 4''; and
                            (ii) in clause (i), by striking 
                        ``subsection (a)(1), (a)(2)(A), or (a)(2)(B) of 
                        section 4'' and inserting ``subsection (a)(1), 
                        (a)(2)(A), (a)(2)(B), (a)(2)(C), or (a)(2)(D) 
                        of section 4''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``section 
                4(a)(2)(C)'' and inserting ``section 4(a)(2)(E)''; and
            (3) in subsection (e), by striking ``subsection (a)(1), 
        (a)(2)(A), or (a)(2)(B) of section 4'' and inserting 
        ``subsection (a)(1), (a)(2)(A), (a)(2)(B), (a)(2)(C), or 
        (a)(2)(D) of section 4''.
    (c) Regulations.--
            (1) In general.--Section 6(k) is amended by adding at the 
        end the following: ``Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act Amendments 
        of 2023, the Attorney General shall issue revised regulations 
        to carry out this Act.''.
            (2) Considerations in revisions.--In issuing revised 
        regulations under section 6(k) of the Radiation Exposure 
        Compensation Act (Public Law 101-426; 42 U.S.C. 2210 note), as 
        amended under paragraph (1), the Attorney General shall ensure 
        that procedures with respect to the submission and processing 
        of claims under such Act take into account and make allowances 
        for the law, tradition, and customs of Indian tribes, including 
        by accepting as a record of proof of physical presence for a 
        claimant a grazing permit, a homesite lease, a record of being 
        a holder of a post office box, a letter from an elected leader 
        of an Indian tribe, or a record of any recognized tribal 
        association or organization.

SEC. 1099HH. LIMITATION ON CLAIMS.

    (a) Extension of Filing Time.--Section 8(a) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``2 years'' and inserting ``19 years''; and
            (2) by striking ``2022'' and inserting ``2023''.
    (b) Resubmittal of Claims.--Section 8(b) is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(b) Resubmittal of Claims.--
            ``(1) Denied claims.--After the date of enactment of the 
        Radiation Exposure Compensation Act Amendments of 2023, any 
        claimant who has been denied compensation under this Act may 
        resubmit a claim for consideration by the Attorney General in 
        accordance with this Act not more than three times. Any 
        resubmittal made before the date of the enactment of the 
        Radiation Exposure Compensation Act Amendments of 2023 shall 
        not be applied to the limitation under the preceding sentence.
            ``(2) Previously successful claims.--
                    ``(A) In general.--After the date of enactment of 
                the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act Amendments of 
                2023, any claimant who received compensation under this 
                Act may submit a request to the Attorney General for 
                additional compensation and benefits. Such request 
                shall contain--
                            ``(i) the claimant's name, social security 
                        number, and date of birth;
                            ``(ii) the amount of award received under 
                        this Act before the date of enactment of the 
                        Radiation Exposure Compensation Act Amendments 
                        of 2023;
                            ``(iii) any additional benefits and 
                        compensation sought through such request; and
                            ``(iv) any additional information required 
                        by the Attorney General.
                    ``(B) Additional compensation.--If the claimant 
                received compensation under this Act before the date of 
                enactment of the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act 
                Amendments of 2023 and submits a request under 
                subparagraph (A), the Attorney General shall--
                            ``(i) pay the claimant the amount that is 
                        equal to any excess of--
                                    ``(I) the amount the claimant is 
                                eligible to receive under this Act (as 
                                amended by the Radiation Exposure 
                                Compensation Act Amendments of 2023); 
                                minus
                                    ``(II) the aggregate amount paid to 
                                the claimant under this Act before the 
                                date of enactment of the Radiation 
                                Exposure Compensation Act Amendments of 
                                2023; and
                            ``(ii) in any case in which the claimant 
                        was compensated under section 4, provide the 
                        claimant with medical benefits under section 
                        4(a)(5).''.

SEC. 1099II. GRANT PROGRAM ON EPIDEMIOLOGICAL IMPACTS OF URANIUM MINING 
              AND MILLING.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``institution of higher education'' has the 
        meaning given under section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 
        1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001);
            (2) the term ``program'' means the grant program 
        established under subsection (b); and
            (3) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Health 
        and Human Services.
    (b) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a grant program 
relating to the epidemiological impacts of uranium mining and milling. 
Grants awarded under the program shall be used for the study of the 
epidemiological impacts of uranium mining and milling among non-
occupationally exposed individuals, including family members of uranium 
miners and millers.
    (c) Administration.--The Secretary shall administer the program 
through the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences.
    (d) Eligibility and Application.--Any institution of higher 
education or nonprofit private entity shall be eligible to apply for a 
grant. To apply for a grant an eligible institution or entity shall 
submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, 
and containing or accompanied by such information as the Secretary may 
reasonably require.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $3,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2024 through 2026.

SEC. 1099JJ. ENERGY EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS COMPENSATION 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Covered Employees With Cancer.--Section 3621(9) of the Energy 
Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000 (42 
U.S.C. 7384l(9)) is amended by striking subparagraph (A) and inserting 
the following:
                    ``(A) An individual with a specified cancer who is 
                a member of the Special Exposure Cohort, if and only 
                if--
                            ``(i) that individual contracted that 
                        specified cancer after beginning employment at 
                        a Department of Energy facility (in the case of 
                        a Department of Energy employee or Department 
                        of Energy contractor employee) or at an atomic 
                        weapons employer facility (in the case of an 
                        atomic weapons employee); or
                            ``(ii) that individual--
                                    ``(I) contracted that specified 
                                cancer after beginning employment in a 
                                uranium mine or uranium mill described 
                                under section 5(a)(1)(A)(i) of the 
                                Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (42 
                                U.S.C. 2210 note) (including any 
                                individual who was employed in core 
                                drilling or the transport of uranium 
                                ore or vanadium-uranium ore from such 
                                mine or mill) located in Colorado, New 
                                Mexico, Arizona, Wyoming, South Dakota, 
                                Washington, Utah, Idaho, North Dakota, 
                                Oregon, Texas, or any State the 
                                Attorney General makes a determination 
                                under section 5(a)(2) of that Act for 
                                inclusion of eligibility under section 
                                5(a)(1) of that Act; and
                                    ``(II) was employed in a uranium 
                                mine or uranium mill described under 
                                subclause (I) (including any individual 
                                who was employed in core drilling or 
                                the transport of uranium ore or 
                                vanadium-uranium ore from such mine or 
                                mill) at any time during the period 
                                beginning on January 1, 1942, and 
                                ending on December 31, 1990.''.
    (b) Members of Special Exposure Cohort.--Section 3626 of the Energy 
Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000 (42 
U.S.C. 7384q) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking paragraph (1) and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(1) The Advisory Board on Radiation and Worker Health 
        under section 3624 shall advise the President whether there is 
        a class of employees--
                    ``(A) at any Department of Energy facility who 
                likely were exposed to radiation at that facility but 
                for whom it is not feasible to estimate with sufficient 
                accuracy the radiation dose they received; and
                    ``(B) employed in a uranium mine or uranium mill 
                described under section 5(a)(1)(A)(i) of the Radiation 
                Exposure Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 2210 note) 
                (including any individual who was employed in core 
                drilling or the transport of uranium ore or vanadium-
                uranium ore from such mine or mill) located in 
                Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, Wyoming, South Dakota, 
                Washington, Utah, Idaho, North Dakota, Oregon, Texas, 
                and any State the Attorney General makes a 
                determination under section 5(a)(2) of that Act for 
                inclusion of eligibility under section 5(a)(1) of that 
                Act, at any time during the period beginning on January 
                1, 1942, and ending on December 31, 1990, who likely 
                were exposed to radiation at that mine or mill but for 
                whom it is not feasible to estimate with sufficient 
                accuracy the radiation dose they received.''; and
            (2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Designation of Additional Members.--
            ``(1) Subject to the provisions of section 3621(14)(C), the 
        members of a class of employees at a Department of Energy 
        facility, or at an atomic weapons employer facility, may be 
        treated as members of the Special Exposure Cohort for purposes 
        of the compensation program if the President, upon 
        recommendation of the Advisory Board on Radiation and Worker 
        Health, determines that--
                    ``(A) it is not feasible to estimate with 
                sufficient accuracy the radiation dose that the class 
                received; and
                    ``(B) there is a reasonable likelihood that such 
                radiation dose may have endangered the health of 
                members of the class.
            ``(2) Subject to the provisions of section 3621(14)(C), the 
        members of a class of employees employed in a uranium mine or 
        uranium mill described under section 5(a)(1)(A)(i) of the 
        Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 2210 note) 
        (including any individual who was employed in core drilling or 
        the transport of uranium ore or vanadium-uranium ore from such 
        mine or mill) located in Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, 
        Wyoming, South Dakota, Washington, Utah, Idaho, North Dakota, 
        Oregon, Texas, and any State the Attorney General makes a 
        determination under section 5(a)(2) of that Act for inclusion 
        of eligibility under section 5(a)(1) of that Act, at any time 
        during the period beginning on January 1, 1942, and ending on 
        December 31, 1990, may be treated as members of the Special 
        Exposure Cohort for purposes of the compensation program if the 
        President, upon recommendation of the Advisory Board on 
        Radiation and Worker Health, determines that--
                    ``(A) it is not feasible to estimate with 
                sufficient accuracy the radiation dose that the class 
                received; and
                    ``(B) there is a reasonable likelihood that such 
                radiation dose may have endangered the health of 
                members of the class.''.

                       Subtitle J--Crypto Assets

SEC. 1099AAA. CRYPTO ASSET ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING EXAMINATION STANDARDS.

    Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Conference of State 
Bank Supervisors and Federal functional regulators, as defined in 
section 1010.100 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations, shall 
establish a risk-focused examination and review process for financial 
institutions, as defined in that section, to assess the following 
relating to crypto assets, as determined by the Secretary:
            (1) The adequacy of reporting obligations and anti-money 
        laundering programs under subsections (g) and (h) of section 
        5318 of title 31, United States Code, respectively as applied 
        to those institutions.
            (2) Compliance of those institutions with anti-money 
        laundering and countering the financing of terrorism 
        requirements under subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, 
        United States Code.

SEC. 1099BBB. COMBATING ANONYMOUS CRYPTO ASSET TRANSACTIONS.

    Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of the Treasury shall submit a report and provide a briefing, 
as determined by the Secretary, to the Committee on Banking, Housing 
and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Financial Services 
of the House of Representatives that assess the following issues:
            (1) Categories of anonymity-enhancing technologies or 
        services used in connection with crypto assets, such as mixers 
        and tumblers, in use as of the date on which the report is 
        submitted.
            (2) As data are available, estimates of the magnitude of 
        transactions related to the categories in paragraph (1) that 
        are believed to be connected, directly or indirectly, to 
        illicit finance, including crypto asset transaction volumes 
        associated with sanctioned entities and entities subject to 
        special measures pursuant to section 5318A of title 31, United 
        States Code, and a description of any limitations applicable to 
        the data used in such estimates.
            (3) Categories of privacy-enhancing technologies or 
        services used in connection with crypto assets in use as of the 
        date on which the report is submitted.
            (4) Legislative and regulatory approaches employed by other 
        jurisdictions relating to the technologies and services 
        described in paragraphs (1) and (3).
            (5) Recommendations for legislation or regulation relating 
        to the technologies and services described in paragraphs (1) 
        and (3).

       Subtitle K--Combating Cartels on Social Media Act of 2023

SEC. 1099AAAA. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Combating Cartels on Social 
Media Act of 2023''.

SEC. 1099BBBB. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Foreign 
                Relations of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Homeland Security and the 
                Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) Covered operator.--The term ``covered operator'' means 
        the operator, developer, or publisher of a covered service.
            (3) Covered service.--The term ``covered service'' means--
                    (A) a social media platform;
                    (B) a mobile or desktop service with direct or 
                group messaging capabilities, but not including text 
                messaging services without other substantial social 
                functionalities or electronic mail services, that the 
                Secretary of Homeland Security determines is being or 
                has been used by transnational criminal organizations 
                in connection with matters described in section 1093; 
                and
                    (C) a digital platform, or an electronic 
                application utilizing the digital platform, involving 
                real-time interactive communication between multiple 
                individuals, including multi-player gaming services and 
                immersive technology platforms or applications, that 
                the Secretary of Homeland Security determines is being 
                or has been used by transnational criminal 
                organizations in connection with matters described in 
                section 1093.
            (4) Criminal enterprise.--The term ``criminal enterprise'' 
        has the meaning given the term ``continuing criminal 
        enterprise'' in section 408 of the Controlled Substances Act 
        (21 U.S.C. 848).
            (5) Illicit activities.--The term ``illicit activities'' 
        means the following criminal activities that transcend national 
        borders:
                    (A) A violation of section 401 of the Controlled 
                Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 841).
                    (B) Narcotics trafficking, as defined in section 
                808 of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act 
                (21 U.S.C. 1907).
                    (C) Trafficking of weapons, as defined in section 
                922 of title 18, United States Code.
                    (D) Migrant smuggling, defined as a violation of 
                section 274(a)(1)(A)(ii) of the Immigration and 
                Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1324(a)(1)(A)(ii)).
                    (E) Human trafficking, defined as--
                            (i) a violation of section 1590, 1591, or 
                        1592 of title 18, United States Code; or
                            (ii) engaging in severe forms of 
                        trafficking in persons, as defined in section 
                        103 of the Victims of Trafficking and Violence 
                        Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102).
                    (F) Cyber crime, defined as a violation of section 
                1030 of title 18, United States Code.
                    (G) A violation of any provision that is subject to 
                intellectual property enforcement, as defined in 
                section 302 of the Prioritizing Resources and 
                Organization for Intellectual Property Act of 2008 (15 
                U.S.C. 8112).
                    (H) Bulk cash smuggling of currency, defined as a 
                violation of section 5332 of title 31, United States 
                Code.
                    (I) Laundering the proceeds of the criminal 
                activities described in subparagraphs (A) through (H).
            (6) Transnational criminal organization.--The term 
        ``transnational criminal organization'' means groups, networks, 
        and associated individuals who operate transnationally for the 
        purposes of obtaining power, influence, or monetary or 
        commercial gain, wholly or in part by certain illegal means, 
        while advancing their activities through a pattern of crime, 
        corruption, or violence, and while protecting their illegal 
        activities through a transnational organizational structure and 
        the exploitation of public corruption or transnational 
        logistics, financial, or communication mechanisms.

SEC. 1099CCCC. ASSESSMENT OF ILLICIT USAGE.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Secretary of State shall 
submit to the appropriate congressional committees a joint assessment 
describing--
            (1) the use of covered services by transnational criminal 
        organizations, or criminal enterprises acting on behalf of 
        transnational criminal organizations, to engage in recruitment 
        efforts, including the recruitment of individuals, including 
        individuals under the age of 18, located in the United States 
        to engage in or provide support with respect to illicit 
        activities occurring in the United States, Mexico, or otherwise 
        in proximity to an international boundary of the United States;
            (2) the use of covered services by transnational criminal 
        organizations to engage in illicit activities or conduct in 
        support of illicit activities, including--
                    (A) smuggling or trafficking involving narcotics, 
                other controlled substances, precursors thereof, or 
                other items prohibited under the laws of the United 
                States, Mexico, or another relevant jurisdiction, 
                including firearms;
                    (B) human smuggling or trafficking, including the 
                exploitation of children; and
                    (C) transportation of bulk currency or monetary 
                instruments in furtherance of smuggling activity; and
            (3) the existing efforts of the Secretary of Homeland 
        Security, the Secretary of State, and relevant government and 
        law enforcement entities to counter, monitor, or otherwise 
        respond to the usage of covered services described in 
        paragraphs (1) and (2).

SEC. 1099DDDD. STRATEGY TO COMBAT CARTEL RECRUITMENT ON SOCIAL MEDIA 
              AND ONLINE PLATFORMS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Secretary of 
State shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a joint 
strategy, to be known as the National Strategy to Combat Illicit 
Recruitment Activity by Transnational Criminal Organizations on Social 
Media and Online Platforms, to combat the use of covered services by 
transnational criminal organizations, or criminal enterprises acting on 
behalf of transnational criminal organizations, to recruit individuals 
located in the United States to engage in or provide support with 
respect to illicit activities occurring in the United States, Mexico, 
or otherwise in proximity to an international boundary of the United 
States.
    (b) Elements.--
            (1) In general.--The strategy required under subsection (a) 
        shall, at a minimum, include the following:
                    (A) A proposal to improve cooperation and 
                thereafter maintain cooperation between the Secretary 
                of Homeland Security, the Secretary of State, and 
                relevant law enforcement entities with respect to the 
                matters described in subsection (a).
                    (B) Recommendations to implement a process for the 
                voluntary reporting of information regarding the 
                recruitment efforts of transnational criminal 
                organizations in the United States involving covered 
                services.
                    (C) A proposal to improve intragovernmental 
                coordination with respect to the matters described in 
                subsection (a), including between the Department of 
                Homeland Security, the Department of State, and State, 
                Tribal, and local governments.
                    (D) A proposal to improve coordination within the 
                Department of Homeland Security and the Department of 
                State and between the components of those Departments 
                with respect to the matters described in subsection 
                (a).
                    (E) Activities to facilitate increased intelligence 
                analysis for law enforcement purposes of efforts of 
                transnational criminal organizations to utilize covered 
                services for recruitment to engage in or provide 
                support with respect to illicit activities.
                    (F) Activities to foster international partnerships 
                and enhance collaboration with foreign governments and, 
                as applicable, multilateral institutions with respect 
                to the matters described in subsection (a).
                    (G) Activities to specifically increase engagement 
                and outreach with youth in border communities, 
                including regarding the recruitment tactics of 
                transnational criminal organizations and the 
                consequences of participation in illicit activities.
                    (H) A detailed description of the measures used to 
                ensure--
                            (i) law enforcement and intelligence 
                        activities focus on the recruitment activities 
                        of transitional criminal organizations not 
                        individuals the transnational criminal 
                        organizations attempt to or successfully 
                        recruit; and
                            (ii) the privacy rights, civil rights, and 
                        civil liberties protections in carrying out the 
                        activities described in clause (i), with a 
                        particular focus on the protections in place to 
                        protect minors and constitutionally protected 
                        activities.
            (2) Limitation.--The strategy required under subsection (a) 
        shall not include legislative recommendations or elements 
        predicated on the passage of legislation that is not enacted as 
        of the date on which the strategy is submitted under subsection 
        (a).
    (c) Consultation.--In drafting and implementing the strategy 
required under subsection (a), the Secretary of Homeland Security and 
the Secretary of State shall, at a minimum, consult and engage with--
            (1) the heads of relevant components of the Department of 
        Homeland Security, including--
                    (A) the Under Secretary for Intelligence and 
                Analysis;
                    (B) the Under Secretary for Strategy, Policy, and 
                Plans;
                    (C) the Under Secretary for Science and Technology;
                    (D) the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border 
                Protection;
                    (E) the Director of U.S. Immigration and Customs 
                Enforcement;
                    (F) the Officer for Civil Rights and Civil 
                Liberties;
                    (G) the Privacy Officer; and
                    (H) the Assistant Secretary of the Office for State 
                and Local Law Enforcement;
            (2) the heads of relevant components of the Department of 
        State, including--
                    (A) the Assistant Secretary for International 
                Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs;
                    (B) the Assistant Secretary for Western Hemisphere 
                Affairs; and
                    (C) the Coordinator of the Global Engagement 
                Center;
            (3) the Attorney General;
            (4) the Secretary of Health and Human Services; and
            (5) the Secretary of Education; and
            (6) as selected by the Secretary of Homeland Security, or 
        his or her designee in the Office of Public Engagement, 
        representatives of border communities, including 
        representatives of--
                    (A) State, Tribal, and local governments, including 
                school districts and local law enforcement; and
                    (B) nongovernmental experts in the fields of--
                            (i) civil rights and civil liberties;
                            (ii) online privacy;
                            (iii) humanitarian assistance for migrants; 
                        and
                            (iv) youth outreach and rehabilitation.
    (d) Implementation.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date on 
        which the strategy required under subsection (a) is submitted 
        to the appropriate congressional committees, the Secretary of 
        Homeland Security and the Secretary of State shall commence 
        implementation of the strategy.
            (2) Report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date on which the strategy required under subsection 
                (a) is implemented under paragraph (1), and 
                semiannually thereafter for 5 years, the Secretary of 
                Homeland Security and the Secretary of State shall 
                submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
                joint report describing the efforts of the Secretary of 
                Homeland Security and the Secretary of State to 
                implement the strategy required under subsection (a) 
                and the progress of those efforts, which shall include 
                a description of--
                            (i) the recommendations, and corresponding 
                        implementation of those recommendations, with 
                        respect to the matters described in subsection 
                        (b)(1)(B);
                            (ii) the interagency posture with respect 
                        to the matters covered by the strategy required 
                        under subsection (a), which shall include a 
                        description of collaboration between the 
                        Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary 
                        of State, other Federal entities, State, local, 
                        and Tribal entities, and foreign governments; 
                        and
                            (iii) the threat landscape, including new 
                        developments related to the United States 
                        recruitment efforts of transnational criminal 
                        organizations and the use by those 
                        organizations of new or emergent covered 
                        services and recruitment methods.
                    (B) Form.--Each report required under subparagraph 
                (A) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may 
                contain a classified annex.
            (3) Civil rights, civil liberties, and privacy 
        assessment.--Not later than 2 years after the date on which the 
        strategy required under subsection (a) is implemented under 
        paragraph (1), the Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties 
        and the Privacy Office of the Department of Homeland Security 
        shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
        joint report that includes--
                    (A) a detailed assessment of the measures used to 
                ensure the protection of civil rights, civil liberties, 
                and privacy rights in carrying out this section; and
                    (B) recommendations to improve the implementation 
                of the strategy required under subsection (a).
            (4) Rulemaking.--Prior to implementation of the strategy 
        required under subsection (a) at the Department of Homeland 
        Security, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall issue rules 
        to carry out this section in accordance with section 553 of 
        title 5, United States Code.

SEC. 1099EEEE. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.

    Nothing in this subtitle shall be construed to expand the statutory 
law enforcement or regulatory authority of the Department of Homeland 
Security or the Department of State.

SEC. 1099FFFF. NO ADDITIONAL FUNDS.

    No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated for the 
purpose of carrying out this subtitle.

  TITLE XI--CONNECTING OCEANIA'S NATIONS WITH VANGUARD EXERCISES AND 
                          NATIONAL EMPOWERMENT

SEC. 1101. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This title may be cited as the ``Connecting 
Oceania's Nations with Vanguard Exercises and National Empowerment'' or 
the ``CONVENE Act of 2023''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this title is as 
follows:

  TITLE XI--CONNECTING OCEANIA'S NATIONS WITH VANGUARD EXERCISES AND 
                          NATIONAL EMPOWERMENT

Sec. 1101. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 1102. Definitions.
Sec. 1103. National security councils of specified countries.

SEC. 1102. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the 
                Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committees on Foreign Affairs and the 
                Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) Congressional defense committees.--The term 
        ``congressional defense committees'' has the meaning given such 
        term in section 101(a) of title 10, United States Code.
            (3) National security council.--The term ``national 
        security council'' means, with respect to a specified country, 
        an intergovernmental body under the jurisdiction of the freely 
        elected government of the specified country that acts as the 
        primary coordinating entity for security cooperation, disaster 
        response, and the activities described section 6103(f).
            (4) Specified country.--The term ``specified country'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Federated States of Micronesia;
                    (B) the Republic of the Marshall Islands; and
                    (C) the Republic of Palau.

SEC. 1103. NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCILS OF SPECIFIED COUNTRIES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of State, in consultation with other 
relevant Federal departments and agencies, as appropriate, may consult 
and engage with each specified country to advise and provide assistance 
to a national security council (including by developing a national 
security council, if appropriate), or to identify a similar 
coordinating body for national security matters, comprised of citizens 
of the specified country--
            (1) that enables the specified country--
                    (A) to better coordinate with the United States 
                Government, including the Armed Forces, as appropriate;
                    (B) to increase cohesion on activities, including 
                emergency humanitarian response, law enforcement, and 
                maritime security activities; and
                    (C) to provide trained professionals to serve as 
                members of the committees of the specified country 
                established under the applicable Compact of Free 
                Association; and
            (2) for the purpose of enhancing resilience capabilities 
        and protecting the people, infrastructure, and territory of the 
        specified country from malign actions.
    (b) Composition.--The Secretary of State, respecting the unique 
needs of each specified country, may seek to ensure that the national 
security council, or other identified coordinating body, of the 
specified country is composed of sufficient staff and members to enable 
the activities described in subsection (f).
    (c) Access to Sensitive Information.--The Secretary of State, with 
the concurrence of the Director of National Intelligence, may 
establish, as appropriate, for use by the members and staff of the 
national security council, or other identified coordinating body, of 
each specified country standards and a process for vetting and sharing 
sensitive information.
    (d) Standards for Equipment and Services.--The Secretary of State 
may work with the national security council, or other identified 
coordinating body, of each specified country to ensure that--
            (1) the equipment and services used by the national 
        security council or other identified coordinating body are 
        compliant with security standards so as to minimize the risk of 
        cyberattacks or espionage;
            (2) the national security council or other identified 
        coordinating body takes all reasonable efforts not to procure 
        or use systems, equipment, or software that originates from any 
        entity identified under section 1260H of the William M. (Mac) 
        Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
        2021 (Public Law 116-283; 134 Stat. 3965; 10 U.S.C. 113 note); 
        and
            (3) to the extent practicable, the equipment and services 
        used by the national security council or other identified 
        coordinating body are interoperable with the equipment and 
        services used by the national security councils, or other 
        identified coordinating bodies, of the other specified 
        countries.
    (e) Report on Implementation.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for two 
        years, the Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate 
        committees of Congress a report that includes--
                    (A) an assessment as to whether a national security 
                council or a similar formal coordinating body is 
                helping or would help achieve the objectives described 
                in subsection (a) at acceptable financial and 
                opportunity cost;
                    (B) a description of all actions taken by the 
                United States Government to assist in the 
                identification or maintenance of a national security 
                council, or other identified coordinating body, in each 
                specified country;
                    (C) with respect to each specified country, an 
                assessment as to whether--
                            (i) the specified country has appropriately 
                        staffed its national security council or other 
                        identified coordinating body; and
                            (ii) the extent to which the national 
                        security council, or other identified 
                        coordinating body, of the specified country is 
                        capable of carrying out the activities 
                        described in subsection (f);
                    (D) an assessment of--
                            (i) any challenge to cooperation and 
                        coordination with the national security 
                        council, or other identified coordinating body, 
                        of any specified country;
                            (ii) current efforts by the Secretary of 
                        State to coordinate with the specified 
                        countries on the activities described in 
                        subsection (f); and
                            (iii) existing governmental entities within 
                        each specified country that are capable of 
                        supporting such activities;
                    (E) a description of any challenge with respect 
                to--
                            (i) the implementation of the national 
                        security council, or other identified 
                        coordinating body, of any specified country; 
                        and
                            (ii) the implementation of subsections (a) 
                        through (d);
                    (F) an assessment of any attempt or campaign by a 
                malign actor to influence the political, security, or 
                economic policy of a specified country, a member of a 
                national security council or other identified 
                coordinating body, or an immediate family member of 
                such a member; and
                    (G) any other matter the Secretary of State 
                considers relevant.
            (2) Form.--Each report required by paragraph (1) may be 
        submitted in unclassified form and may include a classified 
        annex.
    (f) Activities Described.--The activities described in this 
subsection are the following:
            (1) Homeland security activities.--
                    (A) Coordination of--
                            (i) the prosecution and investigation of 
                        transnational criminal enterprises;
                            (ii) responses to national emergencies, 
                        such as natural disasters;
                            (iii) counterintelligence and counter-
                        coercion responses to foreign threats; and
                            (iv) efforts to combat illegal, unreported, 
                        or unregulated fishing.
                    (B) Coordination with United States Government 
                officials on humanitarian response, military exercises, 
                law enforcement, and other issues of security concern.
                    (C) Identification and development of an existing 
                governmental entity to support homeland defense and 
                civil support activities.

                 TITLE XII--CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS

SEC. 1201. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO WAIVE ANNUAL LIMITATION 
              ON PREMIUM PAY AND AGGREGATE LIMITATION ON PAY FOR 
              FEDERAL CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES WORKING OVERSEAS.

    Subsection (a) of section 1101 of the Duncan Hunter National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 
Stat. 4615), as most recently amended by section 1102 of the James M. 
Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public 
Law 117-263), is further amended by striking ``through 2023'' and 
inserting ``through 2024''.

SEC. 1202. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY AUTHORITY TO GRANT 
              ALLOWANCES, BENEFITS, AND GRATUITIES TO CIVILIAN 
              PERSONNEL ON OFFICIAL DUTY IN A COMBAT ZONE.

    Paragraph (2) of section 1603(a) of the Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane 
Recovery, 2006 (Public Law 109-234; 120 Stat. 443), as added by section 
1102 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4616) and as most recently 
amended by section 1103 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263), is further 
amended by striking ``2024'' and inserting ``2025''.

SEC. 1203. EXCLUSION OF POSITIONS IN NONAPPROPRIATED FUND 
              INSTRUMENTALITIES FROM LIMITATIONS ON DUAL PAY.

    Section 5531(2) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``Government corporation and'' and inserting ``Government 
corporation, but excluding''.

SEC. 1204. EXCEPTION TO LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF SENIOR EXECUTIVE 
              SERVICE POSITIONS FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    Section 1109(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2449; 5 U.S.C. 3133 
note) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Exception.--The limitation under this subsection 
        shall not apply to positions described in this subsection that 
        are fully funded through amounts appropriated to an agency 
        other than the Department of Defense.''.

SEC. 1205. REMOVAL OF WASHINGTON HEADQUARTERS SERVICES DIRECT SUPPORT 
              FROM PERSONNEL LIMITATION ON THE OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY 
              OF DEFENSE.

    Section 143(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``(including Direct Support Activities of that Office and the 
Washington Headquarters Services of the Department of Defense)''.

SEC. 1206. CONSOLIDATION OF DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITIES FOR CANDIDATES WITH 
              SPECIFIED DEGREES AT SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY REINVENTION 
              LABORATORIES.

    Section 4091 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``bachelor's degree'' 
        and inserting ``bachelor's or advanced degree'';
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by striking 
                ``Calendar Year'' and inserting ``Fiscal Year'' ;
                    (B) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``calendar year'' and inserting ``fiscal 
                year'';
                    (C) in paragraph (1), by striking ``6 percent'' and 
                inserting ``11 percent''; and
                    (D) in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3), by striking 
                ``the fiscal year last ending before the start of such 
                calendar year'' and inserting ``the preceding fiscal 
                year'';
            (3) by striking subsection (f); and
            (4) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (f).

SEC. 1207. EXPANSION AND EXTENSION OF DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN 
              PERSONNEL OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    Section 9905 of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraphs:
            ``(12) Any position in support of aircraft operations for 
        which the Secretary determines there is a critical hiring need 
        and shortage of candidates.
            ``(13) Any position in support of the safety of the public, 
        law enforcement, or first response for which the Secretary 
        determines there is a critical hiring need and shortage of 
        candidates.
            ``(14) Any position in support of the Office of the 
        Inspector General of the Department relating to oversight of 
        the conflict in Ukraine for which the Secretary determines 
        there is a critical hiring need and shortage of candidates.''; 
        and
            (2) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``September 30, 
        2025'' and inserting ``September 30, 2030''.

SEC. 1208. EXTENSION OF DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE FOR POST-SECONDARY STUDENTS AND RECENT GRADUATES.

    Section 1106(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2017 (10 U.S.C. 1580 note prec.) is amended by striking 
``September 30, 2025'' and inserting ``September 30, 2030''.

SEC. 1209. EXTENSION OF DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR DOMESTIC INDUSTRIAL 
              BASE FACILITIES AND MAJOR RANGE AND TEST FACILITIES BASE.

    Section 1125(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2017 (10 U.S.C. 1580 note prec.; Public Law 114-328) is 
amended by striking ``through 2025,'' and inserting ``through 2028,''.

SEC. 1210. AUTHORITY TO EMPLOY CIVILIAN FACULTY MEMBERS AT SPACE FORCE 
              SCHOOLS.

    (a) In General.--Section 9371 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by inserting ``and Space Delta 
        13'' after ``Air University''
            (2) in subsection (a), by inserting ``or of the Space Delta 
        13'' after ``Air University''; and
            (3) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraphs (1), by inserting ``or of the 
                Space Delta 13'' after ``Air University''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``or of the 
                Space Delta 13'' after ``Air University''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 947 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 9371 and inserting the following new item:

``9371. Air University and Space Delta 13: civilian faculty members.''.

SEC. 1211. REPORT AND SUNSET RELATING TO INAPPLICABILITY OF 
              CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE QUALIFICATIONS BY 
              QUALIFICATION REVIEW BOARDS OF OFFICE OF PERSONNEL 
              MANAGEMENT.

    Section 1109 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (5 U.S.C. 3393 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by striking ``paragraph (3)'' and 
                inserting ``paragraph (4)'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by striking ``paragraph (3)'' and 
                inserting ``paragraph (4)'';
                    (C) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph 
                (4); and
                    (D) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following 
                new paragraph (3):
            ``(3) Additional report.--Not later than December 1, 2024, 
        the Secretary shall submit to the committees of Congress 
        specified in paragraph (4) and the Comptroller General of the 
        United States a report on the use of the authority provided in 
        this section. The report shall include the following:
                    ``(A) The number and type of appointments made 
                under this section between August 13, 2018, and the 
                date of the report.
                    ``(B) Data on and an assessment of whether 
                appointments under the authority in this section 
                reduced the time to hire when compared with the time to 
                hire under the review system of the Office of Personnel 
                Management in use as of the date of the report.
                    ``(C) An assessment of the utility of the 
                appointment authority and process under this section.
                    ``(D) An assessment of whether the appointments 
                made under this section resulted in higher quality new 
                executives for the Senior Executive Service of the 
                Department when compared with the executives produced 
                in the Department under the review system in use 
                between August 13, 2013, and August 13, 2018.
                    ``(E) Any recommendation for the improvement of the 
                selection and qualification process for the Senior 
                Executive Service of the Department that the Secretary 
                considers necessary in order to attract and hire highly 
                qualified candidates for service in that Senior 
                Executive Service.''; and
            (2) in subsection (e), by striking ``August 13, 2023'' and 
        inserting ``September 30, 2025''.

SEC. 1212. EXTENSION OF DATE OF FIRST EMPLOYMENT FOR ACQUISITION OF 
              COMPETITIVE STATUS FOR EMPLOYEES OF INSPECTORS GENERAL 
              FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

    Section 419(d)(5)(B) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``2 years'' and inserting ``5 years''.

SEC. 1213. EXPANSION OF NONCOMPETITIVE APPOINTMENT ELIGIBILITY TO 
              SPOUSES OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CIVILIANS.

    (a) In General.--Section 3330d of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by inserting ``and Department 
        of Defense civilian'' after ``military'';
            (2) in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) The term `spouse of an employee of the Department of 
        Defense' means an individual who is married to an employee of 
        the Department of Defense who is transferred in the interest of 
        the Government from one official station within the Department 
        to another within the Department (that is outside of normal 
        commuting distance) for permanent duty.''; and
            (3) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``or'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; or''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) a spouse of an employee of the Department of 
        Defense.''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections for 
subchapter I of chapter 33 of title 5, United States Code, is amended 
by striking the item relating to section 3330d and inserting the 
following:

``3330d. Appointment of military and Department of Defense civilian 
                            spouses.''.
    (c) OPM Limitation and Reports.--
            (1) Relocating spouses.--With respect to the noncompetitive 
        appointment of a relocating spouse of an employee of the 
        Department of Defense under paragraph (3) of section 3330d(b) 
        of title 5, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), the 
        Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall--
                    (A) monitor the number of those appointments;
                    (B) require the head of each agency with the 
                authority to make those appointments under that 
                provision to submit to the Director an annual report on 
                those appointments, including information on the number 
                of individuals so appointed, the types of positions 
                filled, and the effectiveness of the authority for 
                those appointments; and
                    (C) not later than 18 months after the date of 
                enactment of this Act, submit to the Committee on 
                Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the 
                Senate and the Committee on Oversight and 
                Accountability of the House of Representatives a report 
                on the use and effectiveness of the authority described 
                in subparagraph (B).
            (2) Non-relocating spouses.--With respect to the 
        noncompetitive appointment of a spouse of an employee of the 
        Department of Defense other than a relocating spouse described 
        in paragraph (1), the Director of the Office of Personnel 
        Management--
                    (A) shall treat the spouse as a relocating spouse 
                under paragraph (1); and
                    (B) may limit the number of those appointments.
    (d) Sunset.--Effective on December 31, 2028--
            (1) the authority provided by this section, and the 
        amendments made by this section, shall expire; and
            (2) the provisions of section 3330d of title 5, United 
        States Code, amended or repealed by this section are restored 
        or revived as if this section had not been enacted.

SEC. 1214. ELIMINATION OF GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE REVIEW 
              REQUIREMENT RELATING TO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PERSONNEL 
              AUTHORITIES.

    Section 9902(h) of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking ``and the Comptroller 
        General,'';
            (2) by striking paragraph (2); and
            (3) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2).

SEC. 1215. AMENDMENTS TO THE JOHN S. MCCAIN STRATEGIC DEFENSE FELLOWS 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Selection of Participants.--Subsection (d)(2) of section 932 of 
the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2019 (10 U.S.C. 1580 note prec.; Public Law 115-232) is amended to read 
as follows:
            ``(2) Geographical representation.--Out of the total number 
        of individuals selected to participate in the fellows program 
        in any year, not more than 20 percent may be from any of the 
        following geographic regions:
                    ``(A) The Northeast United States.
                    ``(B) The Southeast United States.
                    ``(C) The Midwest United States.
                    ``(D) The Southwest United States.
                    ``(E) The Western United States.
                    ``(F) Alaska, Hawaii, United States territories, 
                and areas outside the United States.''.
    (b) Appointment and Career Development.--Such section is further 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (d)(3)--
                    (A) by striking ``assigned'' and inserting 
                ``appointed''; and
                    (B) by striking ``assignment'' and inserting 
                ``appointment''; and
            (2) by amending subsections (e) and (f) to read as follows:
    ``(e) Appointment During Participation in Fellows Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall appoint 
        each individual who participates in the fellows program to an 
        excepted service position in an element of the Department.
            ``(2) Placement opportunities.--Each year, the head of each 
        element of the Department shall submit to the Secretary an 
        identification of placement opportunities for participants in 
        the fellows program. Such placement opportunities shall provide 
        for leadership development and potential commencement of a 
        career track toward a position of senior leadership in the 
        Department.
            ``(3) Qualification requirements.--The Secretary, in 
        coordination with the heads of elements of the Department, 
        shall establish qualification requirements for the appointment 
        of participants under paragraph (1).
            ``(4) Matching qualifications, skills, and requirements.--
        In making appointments under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
        seek to best match the qualifications and skills of the 
        participants with the requirements for positions available for 
        appointment.
            ``(5) Term.--The term of each appointment under the fellows 
        program shall be one year, but the Secretary may extend a term 
        of appointment up to one additional year.
            ``(6) Grade.--The Secretary shall appoint an individual 
        under paragraph (1) to a position at the level of GS-10, GS-11, 
        or GS-12 of the General Schedule based on the directly related 
        qualifications, skills, and professional experience of the 
        individual.
            ``(7) Education loan repayment.--To the extent that funds 
        are provided in advance in appropriations Acts, the Secretary 
        may repay a loan of a participant in the fellows program if the 
        loan is described by subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of section 
        16301(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code. Any repayment of a 
        loan under this paragraph may require a minimum service 
        agreement, as determined by the Secretary.
            ``(8) Element of the department defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term `element of the Department' means an 
        element of the Department specified in section 111(b) of title 
        10, United States Code.
    ``(f) Career Development.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure 
        that participants in the fellows program--
                    ``(A) receive career development opportunities and 
                support appropriate for the commencement of a career 
                track within the Department leading toward a future 
                position of senior leadership within the Department, 
                including ongoing mentorship support through 
                appropriate personnel from entities within the 
                Department; and
                    ``(B) are provided appropriate employment 
                opportunities for excepted service positions in the 
                Department upon successful completion of the fellows 
                program.
            ``(2) Publication of selection.--The Secretary shall 
        publish, on an internet website of the Department available to 
        the public, the names of the individuals selected to 
        participate in the fellows program.''.

SEC. 1216. CIVILIAN CYBERSECURITY RESERVE PILOT PROJECT.

    (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``temporary position'' 
means a position in the competitive or excepted service for a period of 
180 days or less.
    (b) Pilot Project.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Army shall carry out 
        a pilot project to establish a Civilian Cybersecurity Reserve.
            (2) Purpose.--The purpose of the Civilian Cybersecurity 
        Reserve is to enable the Army to provide manpower to the United 
        States Cyber Command to effectively--
                    (A) preempt, defeat, deter, or respond to malicious 
                cyber activity;
                    (B) conduct cyberspace operations;
                    (C) secure information and systems of the 
                Department of Defense against malicious cyber activity; 
                and
                    (D) assist in solving cyber workforce-related 
                challenges.
            (3) Hiring authority.--In carrying out this section, the 
        Secretary may use any authority otherwise available to the 
        Secretary for the recruitment, employment, and retention of 
        civilian personnel within the Department, including authority 
        under section 1599f of title 10, United States Code.
            (4) Employment protections.--The Secretary of Labor shall 
        prescribe such regulations as necessary to ensure the 
        reemployment, continuation of benefits, and non-discrimination 
        in reemployment of individuals appointed under this section, 
        provided that such regulations shall include, at a minimum, 
        those rights and obligations set forth under chapter 43 of 
        title 38, United States Code.
            (5) Status in reserve.--During the period beginning on the 
        date on which an individual is recruited to serve in the 
        Civilian Cybersecurity Reserve and ending on the date on which 
        the individual is appointed under this section, and during any 
        period in between any such appointments, the individual shall 
        not be considered a Federal employee.
    (c) Eligibility; Application and Selection.--
            (1) In general.--Under the pilot project required under 
        subsection (b)(1), the Secretary of the Army shall establish 
        criteria for--
                    (A) individuals to be eligible for the Civilian 
                Cybersecurity Reserve; and
                    (B) the application and selection processes for the 
                Civilian Cybersecurity Reserve.
            (2) Requirements for individuals.--The criteria established 
        under paragraph (1)(A) with respect to an individual shall 
        include--
                    (A) if the individual has previously served as a 
                member of the Civilian Cybersecurity Reserve, that the 
                previous appointment ended not less than 60 days before 
                the individual may be appointed for a subsequent 
                temporary position in the Civilian Cybersecurity 
                Reserve; and
                    (B) cybersecurity expertise.
            (3) Prescreening.--The Secretary shall--
                    (A) conduct a prescreening of each individual prior 
                to appointment under this section for any topic or 
                product that would create a conflict of interest; and
                    (B) require each individual appointed under this 
                section to notify the Secretary if a potential conflict 
                of interest arises during the appointment.
            (4) Agreement required.--An individual may become a member 
        of the Civilian Cybersecurity Reserve only if the individual 
        enters into an agreement with the Secretary to become such a 
        member, which shall set forth the rights and obligations of the 
        individual and the Army.
            (5) Exception for continuing military service 
        commitments.--A member of the Selected Reserve under section 
        10143 of title 10, United States Code, may not be a member of 
        the Civilian Cybersecurity Reserve.
            (6) Prohibition.--Any individual who is an employee of the 
        executive branch may not be recruited or appointed to serve in 
        the Civilian Cybersecurity Reserve.
    (d) Security Clearances.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Army shall ensure 
        that all members of the Civilian Cybersecurity Reserve undergo 
        the appropriate personnel vetting and adjudication commensurate 
        with the duties of the position, including a determination of 
        eligibility for access to classified information where a 
        security clearance is necessary, according to applicable policy 
        and authorities.
            (2) Cost of sponsoring clearances.--If a member of the 
        Civilian Cybersecurity Reserve requires a security clearance in 
        order to carry out the duties of the member, the Army shall be 
        responsible for the cost of sponsoring the security clearance 
        of the member.
    (e) Implementation Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date on 
        which the Secretary of Defense submits to the Committee on 
        Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed 
        Services of the House of Representatives the report required 
        under section 1540(d)(2) of the James M. Inhofe National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-
        263) on the feasibility and advisability of creating and 
        maintaining a civilian cybersecurity reserve corps, the 
        Secretary of the Army shall--
                    (A) submit to the congressional defense committees 
                an implementation plan for the pilot project required 
                under subsection (b)(1); and
                    (B) provide to the congressional defense committees 
                a briefing on the implementation plan.
            (2) Prohibition.--The Secretary of the Army may not take 
        any action to begin implementation of the pilot project 
        required under subsection (b)(1) until the Secretary fulfills 
        the requirements under paragraph (1).
    (f) Project Guidance.--Not later than two years after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall, in 
consultation with the Office of Personnel Management and the Office of 
Government Ethics, issue guidance establishing and implementing the 
pilot project required under subsection (b)(1).
    (g) Briefings and Report.--
            (1) Briefings.--Not later than one year after the date on 
        which the guidance required under subsection (f) is issued, and 
        every year thereafter until the date on which the pilot project 
        required under subsection (b)(1) terminates under subsection 
        (i), the Secretary of the Army shall provide to the 
        congressional defense committees a briefing on activities 
        carried out under the pilot project, including--
                    (A) participation in the Civilian Cybersecurity 
                Reserve, including the number of participants, the 
                diversity of participants, and any barriers to 
                recruitment or retention of members;
                    (B) an evaluation of the ethical requirements of 
                the pilot project;
                    (C) whether the Civilian Cybersecurity Reserve has 
                been effective in providing additional capacity to the 
                Army; and
                    (D) an evaluation of the eligibility requirements 
                for the pilot project.
            (2) Report.--Not earlier than 180 days and not later than 
        90 days before the date on which the pilot project required 
        under subsection (b)(1) terminates under subsection (i), the 
        Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
        a report and provide a briefing on recommendations relating to 
        the pilot project, including recommendations for--
                    (A) whether the pilot project should be modified, 
                extended in duration, or established as a permanent 
                program, and if so, an appropriate scope for the 
                program;
                    (B) how to attract participants, ensure a diversity 
                of participants, and address any barriers to 
                recruitment or retention of members of the Civilian 
                Cybersecurity Reserve;
                    (C) the ethical requirements of the pilot project 
                and the effectiveness of mitigation efforts to address 
                any conflict of interest concerns; and
                    (D) an evaluation of the eligibility requirements 
                for the pilot project.
    (h) Evaluation.--Not later than three years after the pilot project 
required under subsection (b)(1) is established, the Comptroller 
General of the United States shall--
            (1) conduct a study evaluating the pilot project; and
            (2) submit to Congress--
                    (A) a report on the results of the study; and
                    (B) a recommendation with respect to whether the 
                pilot project should be modified.
    (i) Sunset.--The pilot project required under subsection (b)(1) 
shall terminate on the date that is four years after the date on which 
the pilot project is established.

            TITLE XIII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

                  Subtitle A--Assistance and Training

SEC. 1301. MIDDLE EAST INTEGRATED MARITIME DOMAIN AWARENESS AND 
              INTERDICTION CAPABILITY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, using existing 
authorities, shall seek to build upon the incorporation of Israel into 
the area of responsibility of the United States Central Command to 
develop a Middle East integrated maritime domain awareness and 
interdiction capability for the purpose of protecting the people, 
infrastructure, and territory of such countries from--
            (1) manned and unmanned naval systems, undersea warfare 
        capabilities, and anti-ship missiles of Iran and groups 
        affiliated with Iran; and
            (2) violent extremist organizations, criminal networks, and 
        piracy activities that threaten lawful commerce in the 
        waterways within the area of responsibility of the United 
        States Naval Forces Central Command.
    (b) Strategy.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
        coordination with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress a strategy for the 
        cooperation described in subsection (a).
            (2) Matters to be included.--The strategy required by 
        paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                    (A) An assessment of the threats posed to ally or 
                partner countries in the Middle East by--
                            (i) manned and unmanned naval systems, 
                        undersea warfare capabilities, and anti-ship 
                        missiles of Iran and groups affiliated with 
                        Iran; and
                            (ii) violent extremist organizations, 
                        criminal networks, and piracy activities that 
                        threaten lawful commerce in the waterways 
                        within the area of responsibility of the United 
                        States Naval Forces Central Command.
                    (B) A description of existing multilateral maritime 
                partnerships currently led by the United States Naval 
                Forces Central Command, including the Combined Maritime 
                Forces (including its associated Task Forces 150, 151, 
                152, and 153), the International Maritime Security 
                Construct, and the Navy's Task Force 59, and a 
                discussion of the role of such partnerships in building 
                an integrated maritime security capability.
                    (C) A description of progress made in advancing the 
                integration of Israel into the existing multilateral 
                maritime partnerships described in subparagraph (B).
                    (D) A description of efforts among countries in the 
                Middle East to coordinate intelligence, reconnaissance, 
                and surveillance capabilities and indicators and 
                warnings with respect to the threats described in 
                subparagraph (A), and a description of any impediment 
                to optimizing such efforts.
                    (E) A description of the current Department of 
                Defense systems that, in coordination with ally and 
                partner countries in the Middle East--
                            (i) provide awareness of and defend against 
                        such threats; and
                            (ii) address current capability gaps.
                    (F) An explanation of the manner in which an 
                integrated maritime domain awareness and interdiction 
                architecture would improve collective security in the 
                Middle East.
                    (G) A description of existing and planned efforts 
                to engage ally and partner countries in the Middle East 
                in establishing such an architecture.
                    (H) An identification of the elements of such an 
                architecture that may be acquired and operated by ally 
                and partner countries in the Middle East, and a list of 
                such elements for each such ally and partner.
                    (I) An identification of the elements of such an 
                architecture that may only be provided and operated by 
                members of the United States Armed Forces.
                    (J) An identification of any challenge to 
                optimizing such an architecture in the Middle East.
                    (K) An assessment of progress and key challenges in 
                the implementation of the strategy required by 
                paragraph (1) using the metrics identified in 
                accordance with paragraph (3).
                    (L) Recommendations for improvements in the 
                implementation of such strategy based on such metrics.
                    (M) An assessment of any capabilities or lessons 
                from the Navy's Task Force 59 that may be leveraged to 
                support an integrated maritime domain awareness and 
                interdiction capability in the Middle East.
                    (N) Any other matter the Secretary of Defense 
                considers relevant.
            (3) Metrics.--The Secretary of Defense shall identify 
        metrics to assess progress in the implementation of the 
        strategy required by paragraph (1).
            (4) Format.--The strategy required by paragraph (1) shall 
        be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified 
        annex.
    (c) Feasibility Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a 
        study on the feasibility and advisability of establishing an 
        integrated maritime domain awareness and interdiction 
        capability to protect the people, infrastructure, and territory 
        of ally and partner countries in the Middle East from--
                    (A) manned and unmanned naval systems, undersea 
                warfare capabilities, and anti-ship missiles of Iran 
                and groups affiliated with Iran; and
                    (B) violent extremist organizations, criminal 
                networks, and piracy activities that threaten lawful 
                commerce in the waterways of the Middle East.
            (2) Elements.--The study required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include--
                    (A) an assessment of funds that could be 
                contributed by ally and partner countries of the United 
                States; and
                    (B) a cost estimate of establishing such an 
                integrated maritime domain awareness and interdiction 
                capability.
            (3) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
        the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the results 
        of the study conducted under paragraph (1).
    (d) Protection of Sensitive Information.--Any activity carried out 
under this section shall be conducted in a manner that appropriately 
protects sensitive information and the national security interests of 
the United States.
    (e) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
        Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the 
        House of Representatives.

SEC. 1302. AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE MISSION TRAINING THROUGH DISTRIBUTED 
              SIMULATION.

    (a) Authority for Training and Distribution.--To enhance the 
interoperability and integration between the United States Armed Forces 
and the military forces of friendly foreign countries, the Secretary of 
Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, is 
authorized--
            (1) to provide to military personnel of a friendly foreign 
        government persistent advanced networked training and exercise 
        activities (in this section referred to as ``mission training 
        through distributed simulation''); and
            (2) to provide information technology, including hardware 
        and computer software developed for mission training through 
        distributed simulation activities.
    (b) Scope of Mission Training.--Mission training through 
distributed simulation provided under subsection (a) may include 
advanced distributed network training events and computer-assisted 
exercises.
    (c) Applicability of Export Control Authorities.--The provision of 
mission training through distributed simulation and information 
technology under this section shall be subject to the Arms Export 
Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.) and any other export control 
authority under law relating to the transfer of military technology to 
foreign countries.
    (d) Guidance on Use of Authority.--Not later than 60 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
develop and issue guidance on the procedures for the use of the 
authority provided in this section.
    (e) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on 
        the use of mission training through distributed simulation by 
        military personnel of friendly foreign countries.
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A description of ongoing mission training 
                through distributed simulation activities between the 
                United States Armed Forces and the military forces of 
                friendly foreign countries.
                    (B) A description of the current capabilities of 
                the military forces of friendly foreign countries to 
                support mission training through distributed simulation 
                activities with the United States Armed Forces.
                    (C) A description of the manner in which the 
                Department intends to use mission training through 
                distributed simulation activities to support 
                implementation of the National Defense Strategy, 
                including in areas of responsibility of the United 
                States European Command and the United States Indo-
                Pacific Command.
                    (D) Any recommendation of the Secretary of Defense 
                for legislative proposals or policy guidance regarding 
                the use of mission training through distributed 
                simulation activities.
            (3) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Appropriations, and the Committee on Foreign 
                Relations of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Appropriations, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs 
                of the House of Representatives.
    (f) Sunset.--The authority provided in this section shall terminate 
on December 31, 2025.

SEC. 1303. INCREASE IN SMALL-SCALE CONSTRUCTION LIMIT AND MODIFICATION 
              OF AUTHORITY TO BUILD CAPACITY.

    (a) Definition of Small-scale Construction.--Section 301(8) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``$1,500,000'' and 
inserting ``$2,000,000''.
    (b) Modification of Authority to Build Capacity.--
            (1) In general.--Subsection (a) of section 333 of title 10, 
        United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``or other 
                counter-illicit trafficking operations'' before the 
                period at the end; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(10) Foreign internal defense operations.''.
            (2) Increase in threshold for small-scale construction 
        projects requiring additional documentation.--Subsection (e)(8) 
        of such section is amended by striking ``$750,000'' and 
        inserting ``$1,000,000''.
            (3) Equipment disposition.--Such section is further amended 
        by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(h) Equipment Disposition.--The Secretary of Defense may treat as 
stocks of the Department of Defense--
            ``(1) equipment procured to carry out a program pursuant to 
        subsection (a) that has not yet been transferred to a foreign 
        country and is no longer needed to support such program or any 
        other program carried out pursuant to such subsection; and
            ``(2) equipment that has been transferred to a foreign 
        country to carry out a program pursuant to subsection (a) and 
        is returned by the foreign country to the United States.''.
            (4) International agreements.--Such section is further 
        amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(i) International Agreements.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, with the 
        concurrence of the Secretary of State, may--
                    ``(A) allow a foreign country to provide sole-
                source direction for assistance in support of a program 
                carried out pursuant to subsection (a); and
                    ``(B) enter into an agreement with a foreign 
                country to provide such sole-source direction.
            ``(2) Notification.--Not later than 72 hours after the 
        Secretary of Defense enters into an agreement under paragraph 
        (1), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a written notification that includes the following:
                    ``(A) A description of the parameters of the 
                agreement, including types of support, objectives, and 
                duration of support and cooperation under the 
                agreement.
                    ``(B) A description and justification of any 
                anticipated use of sole-source direction pursuant to 
                such agreement.
                    ``(C) A determination as to whether the anticipated 
                costs to incurred under the agreement are fair and 
                reasonable.
                    ``(D) A certification that the agreement is in the 
                national security interests of the United States.
                    ``(E) Any other matter relating to the agreement, 
                as determined by the Secretary of Defense.''.
            (5) Foreign internal defense defined.--Such section is 
        further amended by adding at the end of the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(j) Foreign Internal Defense Defined.--In this section, the term 
`foreign internal defense' has the meaning given such term in the 
publication of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff entitled 
`Joint Publication 3-22 Foreign Internal Defense' issued on August 17, 
2018 and validated on February 2, 2021.''.

SEC. 1304. EXTENSION OF LEGAL INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING 
              INITIATIVE FOR FOREIGN DEFENSE INSTITUTIONS.

    Section 1210(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92; 133 Stat. 1626) is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2024'' and inserting ``December 31, 2028''.

SEC. 1305. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF 
              CERTAIN COALITION NATIONS FOR SUPPORT PROVIDED TO UNITED 
              STATES MILITARY OPERATIONS.

    (a) Extension.--Subsection (a) of section 1233 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 
Stat. 393) is amended by striking ``beginning on October 1, 2022, and 
ending on December 31, 2023'' and inserting ``beginning on October 1, 
2023, and ending on December 31, 2024''.
    (b) Modification to Limitation.--Subsection (d)(1) of such section 
is amended--
            (1) by striking ``beginning on October 1, 2022, and ending 
        on December 31, 2023'' and inserting ``beginning on October 1, 
        2023, and ending on December 31, 2024''; and
            (2) by striking ``$30,000,000'' and inserting 
        ``$15,000,000''.

SEC. 1306. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SUPPORT FOR 
              STABILIZATION ACTIVITIES IN NATIONAL SECURITY INTEREST OF 
              THE UNITED STATES.

    Section 1210A(h) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92; 133 Stat. 1626) is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2023'' and inserting ``December 31, 2025''.

SEC. 1307. EXTENSION OF CROSS SERVICING AGREEMENTS FOR LOAN OF 
              PERSONNEL PROTECTION AND PERSONNEL SURVIVABILITY 
              EQUIPMENT IN COALITION OPERATIONS.

    Section 1207(f) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 
113-291; 10 U.S.C. 2342 note) is amended by striking ``December 31, 
2024'' and inserting ``December 31, 2029''.

SEC. 1308. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR INTERNATIONAL 
              SECURITY COOPERATION PROGRAM.

    Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal 
year 2024 for operation and maintenance, Defense-wide, and available 
for the Defense Security Cooperation Agency for the International 
Security Cooperation Program, not more than 75 percent may be obligated 
or expended until the Secretary of Defense submits the security 
cooperation strategy for each covered combatant command required by 
section 1206 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2022 (Public Law 117-81; 135 Stat. 1960).

SEC. 1309. MODIFICATION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SECURITY COOPERATION 
              WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT.

    Section 384 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) by striking ``The Program'' and inserting the 
                following:
            ``(1) In general.--The Program''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraphs:
            ``(2) Managing entity.--
                    ``(A) Designation.--The Secretary of Defense, 
                acting through the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Policy and the Director of the Defense Security 
                Cooperation Agency, shall designate an entity within 
                the Department of Defense to serve as the lead entity 
                for managing the implementation of the Program.
                    ``(B) Duties.--The entity designated under 
                subparagraph (A) shall carry out the management and 
                implementation of the Program, consistent with 
                objectives formulated by the Secretary of Defense, 
                which shall include the following:
                            ``(i) Providing for comprehensive tracking 
                        of and accounting for all Department of Defense 
                        employees engaged in the security cooperation 
                        enterprise.
                            ``(ii) Providing training requirements 
                        specified at the requisite proficiency levels 
                        for each position.
                    ``(C) Reporting.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
                ensure that, not less frequently than annually, each 
                military department, combatant command, defense agency, 
                and any other entity involved in managing the security 
                cooperation workforce submits to the entity designated 
                under subparagraph (A) a report containing information 
                necessary for the management and career development of 
                the security cooperation workforce, as determined by 
                the Director of the Defense Security Cooperation 
                Agency.
            ``(3) Security cooperation workforce management information 
        system.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Director 
        of the Defense Security Cooperation Agency, shall prescribe 
        regulations to ensure that each military department, combatant 
        command, and defense agency provides standardized information 
        and data to the Secretary on persons serving in positions 
        within the security cooperation workforce.'';
            (2) in subsection (e), by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraph:
            ``(4) Updated guidance.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than 270 days after 
                the date of the enactment of this paragraph, and 
                biannually thereafter through fiscal year 2028, the 
                Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the 
                Secretary of State, shall issue updated guidance for 
                the execution and administration of the Program.
                    ``(B) Scope.--The updated guidance required by 
                subparagraph (A) shall--
                            ``(i) fulfill each requirement set forth in 
                        paragraph (3), as appropriate; and
                            ``(ii) include an identification of the 
                        manner in which the Department of Defense shall 
                        ensure that personnel assigned to security 
                        cooperation offices within embassies of the 
                        United States are trained and managed to a 
                        level of proficiency that is at least equal to 
                        the level of proficiency provided to the 
                        attache workforce by the Defense Attache 
                        Service.'';
            (3) by redesignating subsections (f) through (h) as 
        subsections (h) through (j), respectively; and
            (4) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
        subsections (f) and (g):
    ``(f) Foreign Military Sales Center of Excellence.--
            ``(1) Establishment.--The Secretary of Defense shall direct 
        an existing schoolhouse within the Department of Defense to 
        serve as a Foreign Military Sales Center of Excellence to 
        improve the training and education of personnel engaged in 
        foreign military sales planning and execution.
            ``(2) Objectives.--The objectives of the Foreign Military 
        Sales Center of Excellence shall include--
                    ``(A) conducting research on and promoting best 
                practices for ensuring that foreign military sales are 
                timely and effective; and
                    ``(B) enhancing existing curricula for the purpose 
                of ensuring that the foreign military sales workforce 
                is fully trained and prepared to execute the foreign 
                military sales program.
    ``(g) Defense Security Cooperation University.--
            ``(1) Charter.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop and 
        promulgate a charter for the operation of the Defense Security 
        Cooperation University.
            ``(2) Mission.--The charter required by paragraph (1) shall 
        set forth the mission, and associated structures and 
        organizations, of the Defense Security Cooperation University, 
        which shall include--
                    ``(A) management and implementation of 
                international military training and education security 
                cooperation programs and authorities executed by the 
                Department of Defense;
                    ``(B) management and provision of institutional 
                capacity-building services executed by the Department 
                of Defense; and
                    ``(C) advancement of the profession of security 
                cooperation through research, data collection, 
                analysis, publication, and learning.
            ``(3) Cooperative research and development arrangements.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In engaging in research and 
                development projects pursuant to subsection (a) of 
                section 4001 of this title by a contract, cooperative 
                agreement, or grant pursuant to subsection (b)(1) of 
                such section, the Secretary of Defense may enter into 
                such contract or cooperative agreement, or award such 
                grant, through the Defense Security Cooperation 
                University.
                    ``(B) Treatment as government-operated federal 
                laboratory.--The Defense Security Cooperation 
                University shall be considered a Government-operated 
                Federal laboratory for purposes of section 12 of the 
                Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 
                U.S.C. 3710a).
            ``(4) Acceptance of research grants.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, 
                through the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, may 
                authorize the President of the Defense Security 
                Cooperation University to accept qualifying research 
                grants. Any such grant may only be accepted if the work 
                under the grant is to be carried out by a professor or 
                instructor of the Defense Security Cooperation 
                University for a scientific, literary, or educational 
                purpose.
                    ``(B) Qualifying grants.--A qualifying research 
                grant under this paragraph is a grant that is awarded 
                on a competitive basis by an entity described in 
                subparagraph (C) for a research project with a 
                scientific, literary, or educational purpose.
                    ``(C) Entities from which grants may be accepted.--
                A grant may be accepted under this paragraph only from 
                a corporation, fund, foundation, educational 
                institution, or similar entity that is organized and 
                operated primarily for scientific, literary, or 
                educational purposes.
                    ``(D) Administration of grant funds.--The Director 
                of the Defense Security Cooperation Agency shall 
                establish an account for administering funds received 
                as research grants under this section. The President of 
                the Defense Security Cooperation University shall use 
                the funds in the account in accordance with applicable 
                provisions of the regulations and the terms and 
                condition of the grants received.
                    ``(E) Related expenses.--Subject to such 
                limitations as may be provided in appropriations Acts, 
                appropriations available for the Defense Security 
                Cooperation University may be used to pay expenses 
                incurred by the Defense Security Cooperation University 
                in applying for, and otherwise pursuing, the award of 
                qualifying research grants.
                    ``(F) Regulations.--The Secretary of Defense, 
                through the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, 
                shall prescribe regulations for the administration of 
                this section.''.

SEC. 1310. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE SUPPORT TO CERTAIN 
              GOVERNMENTS FOR BORDER SECURITY OPERATIONS.

    Section 1226(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2016 (22 U.S.C. 2151 note) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
                    ``(G) To the Government of Tajikistan for purposes 
                of supporting and enhancing efforts of the armed forces 
                of Tajikistan to increase security and sustain 
                increased security along the border of Tajikistan and 
                Afghanistan.
                    ``(H) To the Government of Uzbekistan for purposes 
                of supporting and enhancing efforts of the armed forces 
                of Uzbekistan to increase security and sustain 
                increased security along the border of Uzbekistan and 
                Afghanistan.
                    ``(I) To the Government of Turkmenistan for 
                purposes of supporting and enhancing efforts of the 
                armed forces of Turkmenistan to increase security and 
                sustain increased security along the border of 
                Turkmenistan and Afghanistan.''.

SEC. 1311. MODIFICATION OF DEFENSE OPERATIONAL RESILIENCE INTERNATIONAL 
              COOPERATION PILOT PROGRAM.

    Section 1212 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263; 136 Stat. 2834; 10 U.S.C. 
311 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``military forces'' and 
        inserting ``national security forces'';
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                        ``military-to-military relationships'' and 
                        inserting ``relationships with the national 
                        security forces of partner countries''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (C), by striking 
                        ``military forces'' and inserting ``national 
                        security forces''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(4) Sustainment and non-lethal assistance.--A program 
        under subsection (a) may include the provision of sustainment 
        and non-lethal assistance, including training, defense 
        services, supplies (including consumables), and small-scale 
        construction (as such terms are defined in section 301 of title 
        10, United States Code).'';
            (3) in subsection (e)(3)(A), by striking ``military force'' 
        and inserting ``national security forces''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(g) National Security Forces Defined.--In this section, the term 
`national security forces' has the meaning given the term in section 
301 of title 10, United States Code.''.

SEC. 1312. ASSISTANCE TO ISRAEL FOR AERIAL REFUELING.

    (a) Training Israeli Pilots to Operate KC-46 Aircraft.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall--
                    (A) make available sufficient resources and 
                accommodations within the United States to train 
                members of the Israeli Air Force on the operation of 
                KC-46 aircraft;
                    (B) conduct training for members of the Israeli Air 
                Force, including--
                            (i) training for pilots and crew on the 
                        operation of the KC-46 aircraft in accordance 
                        with standards considered sufficient to conduct 
                        coalition operations of the United States Air 
                        Force and the Israeli Air Force; and
                            (ii) training for ground personnel on the 
                        maintenance and sustainment requirements of the 
                        KC-46 aircraft considered sufficient for such 
                        operations; and
                    (C) conduct the timing of such training so as to 
                ensure that the first group of trainee members of the 
                Israeli Air Force is anticipated to complete the 
                training not later than 2 weeks after the date on which 
                the first KC-46 aircraft is delivered to Israel.
            (2) United states air force military personnel exchange 
        program.--The Secretary of Defense shall, with respect to 
        members of the Israeli Air Force associated with the operation 
        of KC-46 aircraft--
                    (A) before the completion of the training required 
                by paragraph (1)(B), authorize the participation of 
                such members of the Israeli Air Force in the United 
                States Air Force Military Personnel Exchange Program;
                    (B) make available billets in the United States Air 
                Force Military Personnel Exchange Program necessary for 
                such members of the Israeli Air Force to participate in 
                such program; and
                    (C) to the extent practicable, ensure that such 
                members of the Israeli Air Force are able to 
                participate in the United States Air Force Military 
                Personnel Exchange Program immediately after such 
                members complete such training.
            (3) Termination.--This subsection shall cease to have 
        effect on the date that is ten years after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.
    (b) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a briefing that includes the following:
            (1) An assessment of--
                    (A) the current operational requirements of the 
                Government of Israel for aerial refueling; and
                    (B) any gaps in current or near-term capabilities.
            (2) The estimated date of delivery to Israel of KC-46 
        aircraft procured by the Government of Israel.
            (3) A detailed description of--
                    (A) any actions the United States Government is 
                taking to expedite the delivery to Israel of KC-46 
                aircraft procured by the Government of Israel, while 
                minimizing adverse impacts to United States defense 
                readiness, including strategic forces readiness;
                    (B) any additional actions the United States 
                Government could take to expedite such delivery; and
                    (C) additional authorities Congress could provide 
                to help expedite such delivery.
            (4) A description of the availability of any United States 
        aerial refueling tanker aircraft that is retired or is expected 
        to be retired during the two-year period beginning on the date 
        of the enactment of this Act that could be provided to Israel.
    (c) Forward Deployment of United States KC-46 Aircraft to Israel.--
            (1) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide 
        to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House 
        of Representatives a briefing that describes the capacity of 
        and requirements for the United States Air Force to forward 
        deploy KC-46 aircraft to Israel on a rotational basis until the 
        date on which a KC-46 aircraft procured by the Government of 
        Israel is commissioned into the Israeli Air Force and achieves 
        full combat capability.
            (2) Rotational forces.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraphs (B) and 
                (C), the Secretary of Defense shall, consistent with 
                maintaining United States defense readiness, 
                rotationally deploy one or more KC-46 aircraft to 
                Israel until the earlier of--
                            (i) the date on which a KC-46 aircraft 
                        procured by the military forces of Israel is 
                        commissioned into such military forces and 
                        achieves full combat capability; or
                            (ii) five years after the date of the 
                        enactment of this Act.
                    (B) Limitation.--The Secretary of Defense may only 
                carry out a rotational deployment under subparagraph 
                (A) if the Government of Israel consents to the 
                deployment.
                    (C) Presence.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
                consult with the Government of Israel to determine the 
                length of rotational deployments of United States KC-46 
                aircraft to Israel until the applicable date under 
                subparagraph (A).

SEC. 1313. REPORT ON COORDINATION WITH PRIVATE ENTITIES AND STATE 
              GOVERNMENTS WITH RESPECT TO THE STATE PARTNERSHIP 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.-- The Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress 
a report on the feasibility of coordinating with private entities and 
State governments to provide resources and personnel to support 
technical exchanges under the Department of Defense State Partnership 
Program established under section 341 of title 10, United States Code.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) An analysis of the limitations of the State Partnership 
        Program.
            (2) The types of personnel and expertise that could be 
        helpful to partner country participants in the State 
        Partnership Program.
            (3) Any authority needed to leverage such expertise from 
        private entities and State governments, as applicable.

         Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Syria, Iraq, and Iran

SEC. 1321. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE 
              ASSISTANCE TO VETTED SYRIAN GROUPS AND INDIVIDUALS.

    (a) Extension.--Subsection (a) of section 1209 of the Carl Levin 
and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3541) is amended, in 
the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``December 31, 2023'' 
and inserting ``December 31, 2024''.
    (b) Limitation on Cost of Construction and Repair Projects.--
Subsection (l)(3) of such section is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``The President'' and 
        all that follows through ``if the President'' and inserting 
        ``The Secretary of Defense may waive the limitations under 
        paragraph (1) for the purposes of providing support under 
        subsection (a)(4) if the Secretary'';
            (2) by striking subparagraph (B);
            (3) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``as required by 
        subparagraph (B)(ii)(I)'';
            (4) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``December 31, 2023'' 
        and inserting ``December 31, 2024''; and
            (5) by redesignating subparagraphs (C) and (D) as 
        subparagraphs (B) and (C), respectively.

SEC. 1322. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO SUPPORT OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES 
              OF THE OFFICE OF SECURITY COOPERATION IN IRAQ.

    (a) Limitation on Amount.--Subsection (c) of section 1215 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (10 U.S.C. 113 
note) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``fiscal year 2023'' and inserting ``fiscal 
        year 2024''; and
            (2) by striking ``$25,000,000'' and inserting 
        ``$18,000,000''.
    (b) Source of Funds.--Subsection (d) of such section is amended by 
striking ``fiscal year 2023'' and inserting ``fiscal year 2024''.

SEC. 1323. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE 
              ASSISTANCE TO COUNTER THE ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ AND 
              SYRIA.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 1236 of the Carl Levin 
and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3559) is amended, in 
the matter preceding paragraph (1)--
            (1) by inserting ``equipment and training to counter 
        threats from unmanned aerial systems,'' before ``and 
        sustainment''; and
            (2) by striking ``December 31, 2023'' and inserting 
        ``December 31, 2024''.
    (b) Funding.--Subsection (g) of such section is amended by striking 
``Overseas Contingency Operations for fiscal year 2023, there are 
authorized to be appropriated $358,000,000'' and inserting ``fiscal 
year 2024, there is authorized to be appropriated $241,950,000''.
    (c) Foreign Contributions.--Subsection (h) of such section is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Secretary'' and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(2) Use of contributions.--The limitations on costs under 
        subsections (a) and (m) shall not apply with respect to the 
        expenditure of foreign contributions in excess of such 
        limitations.''.
    (d) Waiver Authority.--Subsection (o) of such section is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``The President'' and all 
        that follows through ``if the President'' and inserting ``The 
        Secretary of Defense may waive the limitations on costs under 
        subsection (a) or (m) if the Secretary'';
            (2) by striking paragraph (3);
            (3) in paragraph (4), by striking ``as required by 
        paragraph (3)(B)(i)'';
            (4) in paragraph (5), by striking ``December 31, 2023'' and 
        inserting ``December 31, 2024''; and
            (5) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5) as paragraphs 
        (3) and (4), respectively.
    (e) Notification of Provision of Counter Unmanned Aerial Systems 
Training and Assistance.--Such section is further amended by adding at 
the end the following new subsection:
    ``(p) Notification of Provision of Counter Unmanned Aerial Systems 
Training and Assistance.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after providing 
        assistance under this section for countering threats from 
        unmanned aerial systems, the Secretary of Defense shall notify 
        the appropriate congressional committees of such provision of 
        assistance.
            ``(2) Elements.--The notification required by paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    ``(A) An identification of the military forces 
                being provided such assistance.
                    ``(B) A description of the type of such assistance, 
                including the types of training and equipment, being 
                provided.''.

SEC. 1324. BRIEFING ON NUCLEAR CAPABILITY OF IRAN.

    Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Defense shall provide the Committees on Armed Services 
of the Senate and the House of Representatives with--
            (1) a briefing on--
                    (A) threats to global security posed by the nuclear 
                weapon capability of Iran; and
                    (B) progress made by Iran in enriching uranium at 
                levels proximate to or exceeding weapons grade; and
            (2) recommendations for actions the United States may take 
        to ensure that Iran does not acquire a nuclear weapon 
        capability.

SEC. 1325. MODIFICATION OF ESTABLISHMENT OF COORDINATOR FOR DETAINED 
              ISIS MEMBERS AND RELEVANT POPULATIONS IN SYRIA.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Foreign Relations, the Committee on the Judiciary, 
                the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, 
                the Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Committee 
                on Appropriations of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on the Judiciary, the 
                Committee on Financial Services, the Permanent Select 
                Committee on Intelligence, and the Committee on 
                Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
            (2) ISIS member.--The term ``ISIS member'' means a person 
        who was part of, or substantially supported, the Islamic State 
        in Iraq and Syria.
            (3) Senior coordinator.--The term ``Senior Coordinator'' 
        means the coordinator for detained ISIS members and relevant 
        displaced populations in Syria designated under subsection (a) 
        of section 1224 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92; 133 Stat. 1642), as 
        amended by subsection (d).
    (b) Sense of Congress.--
            It is the sense of Congress that--
                    (A) ISIS detainees held by the Syrian Democratic 
                Forces and ISIS-affiliated individuals located within 
                displaced persons camps in Syria pose a significant and 
                growing humanitarian challenge and security threat to 
                the region;
                    (B) the vast majority of individuals held in 
                displaced persons camps in Syria are women and 
                children, approximately 50 percent of whom are under 
                the age of 12 at the al-Hol camp, and they face 
                significant threats of violence and radicalization, as 
                well as lacking access to adequate sanitation and 
                health care facilities;
                    (C) there is an urgent need to seek a sustainable 
                solution to such camps through repatriation and 
                reintegration of the inhabitants;
                    (D) the United States should work closely with 
                international allies and partners to facilitate the 
                repatriation and reintegration efforts required to 
                provide a long-term solution for such camps and prevent 
                the resurgence of ISIS; and
                    (E) if left unaddressed, such camps will continue 
                to be drivers of instability that jeopardize the long-
                term prospects for peace and stability in the region.
    (c) Statement of Policy.--It is the policy of the United States 
that--
            (1) ISIS-affiliated individuals located within displacement 
        camps in Syria, and other inhabitants of displacement camps in 
        Syria, be repatriated and, where appropriate, prosecuted, or 
        where possible, reintegrated into their country of origin, 
        consistent with all relevant domestic laws and applicable 
        international laws prohibiting refoulement; and
            (2) the camps will be closed as soon as is practicable.
    (d) Modification of Establishment of Coordinator for Detained ISIS 
Members and Relevant Displaced Populations in Syria.--Section 1224 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 
116-92; 133 Stat. 1642) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (a);
            (2) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:
    ``(a) Designation.--
            ``(1) In general.--The President, in consultation with the 
        Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of State, the Director of 
        National Intelligence, the Secretary of the Treasury, the 
        Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
        Development, and the Attorney General, shall designate an 
        existing official to serve within the executive branch as 
        senior-level coordinator to coordinate, in conjunction with 
        other relevant agencies, matters related to ISIS members who 
        are in the custody of the Syrian Democratic Forces and other 
        relevant displaced populations in Syria, including--
                    ``(A) by engaging foreign partners to support the 
                repatriation and disposition of such individuals, 
                including by encouraging foreign partners to 
                repatriate, transfer, investigate, and prosecute such 
                ISIS members, and share information;
                    ``(B) coordination of all multilateral and 
                international engagements led by the Department of 
                State and other agencies that are related to the 
                current and future handling, detention, and prosecution 
                of such ISIS members;
                    ``(C) the funding and coordination of the provision 
                of technical and other assistance to foreign countries 
                to aid in the successful investigation and prosecution 
                of such ISIS members, as appropriate, in accordance 
                with relevant domestic laws, international humanitarian 
                law, and other internationally recognized human rights 
                and rule of law standards;
                    ``(D) coordination of all multilateral and 
                international engagements related to humanitarian 
                access and provision of basic services to, and freedom 
                of movement and security and safe return of, displaced 
                persons at camps or facilities in Syria that hold 
                family members of such ISIS members;
                    ``(E) coordination with relevant agencies on 
                matters described in this section; and
                    ``(F) any other matter the President considers 
                relevant.
            ``(2) Rule of construction.--If, on the date of the 
        enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2024, an individual has already been designated, 
        consistent with the requirements and responsibilities described 
        in paragraph (1), the requirements under that paragraph shall 
        be considered to be satisfied with respect to such individual 
        until the date on which such individual no longer serves as the 
        Senior Coordinator.'';
            (3) in subsection (c), by striking ``subsection (b)'' and 
        inserting ``subsection (a)'';
            (4) in subsection (d), by striking ``subsection (b)'' and 
        inserting ``subsection (a)'';
            (5) in subsection (e), by striking ``January 31, 2021'' and 
        inserting ``January 31, 2025'';
            (6) in subsection (f)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph 
                (3);
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following 
                new paragraph (2):
            ``(2) Senior coordinator.--The term `Senior Coordinator' 
        means the individual designated under subsection (a).''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(4) Relevant agencies.--The term `relevant agencies' 
        means--
                    ``(A) the Department of State;
                    ``(B) the Department of Defense;
                    ``(C) the Department of the Treasury;
                    ``(D) the Department of Justice;
                    ``(E) the United States Agency for International 
                Development;
                    ``(F) the Office of the Director of National 
                Intelligence; and
                    ``(G) any other agency the President considers 
                relevant.''; and
            (7) by redesignating subsections (c) through (f) as 
        subsections (b) through (e), respectively.
    (e) Strategy on ISIS-Related Detainee and Displacement Camps in 
Syria.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in 
        coordination with the Secretary of Defense, the Director of 
        National Intelligence, the Secretary of the Treasury, the 
        Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
        Development, and the Attorney General, shall submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress an interagency strategy with 
        respect to ISIS-affiliated individuals and ISIS-related 
        detainee and other displaced persons camps in Syria.
            (2) Elements.--The strategy required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include--
                    (A) methods to address--
                            (i) disengagement from and prevention of 
                        recruitment into violence, violent extremism, 
                        and other illicit activity in such camps;
                            (ii) efforts to encourage and facilitate 
                        repatriation and, as appropriate, investigation 
                        and prosecution of foreign nationals from such 
                        camps, consistent with all relevant domestic 
                        and applicable international laws;
                            (iii) the return and reintegration of 
                        displaced Syrian and Iraqi women and children 
                        into their communities of origin;
                            (iv) international engagement to develop 
                        processes for repatriation and reintegration of 
                        foreign nationals from such camps;
                            (v) contingency plans for the relocation of 
                        detained and displaced persons who are not able 
                        to be repatriated from such camps;
                            (vi) efforts to improve the humanitarian 
                        conditions in such camps, including through the 
                        delivery of medicine, psychosocial support, 
                        clothing, education, and improved housing; and
                            (vii) assessed humanitarian and security 
                        needs of all camps and detainment facilities 
                        based on prioritization of such camps and 
                        facilities most at risk of humanitarian crises, 
                        external attacks, or internal violence;
                    (B) an assessment of--
                            (i) rehabilitation centers in northeast 
                        Syria, including humanitarian conditions and 
                        processes for admittance and efforts to improve 
                        both humanitarian conditions and admittance 
                        processes for such centers and camps, as well 
                        as on the prevention of youth radicalization; 
                        and
                            (ii) processes for being sent to, and 
                        resources directed towards, rehabilitation 
                        centers and programs in countries that receive 
                        returned ISIS affiliated individuals, with a 
                        focus on the prevention of radicalization of 
                        minor children;
                    (C) a plan to improve, in such camps--
                            (i) security conditions, including by 
                        training of personnel and through construction; 
                        and
                            (ii) humanitarian conditions;
                    (D) a framework for measuring progress of 
                humanitarian, security, and repatriation efforts with 
                the goal of closing such camps; and
                    (E) any other matter the Secretary of State 
                considers appropriate.
            (3) Form.--The strategy required by paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified 
        annex that is transmitted separately.
    (f) Annual Interagency Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than 
        annually thereafter through January 31, 2025, the Senior 
        Coordinator, in coordination with the relevant agencies, shall 
        submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a detailed 
        report that includes the following:
                    (A) A detailed description of the facilities and 
                camps where detained ISIS members, and families with 
                perceived ISIS affiliation, are being held and housed, 
                including--
                            (i) a description of the security and 
                        management of such facilities and camps;
                            (ii) an assessment of resources required 
                        for the security of such facilities and camps;
                            (iii) an assessment of the adherence by the 
                        operators of such facilities and camps to 
                        international humanitarian law standards; and
                            (iv) an assessment of children held within 
                        such facilities and camps that may be used as 
                        part of smuggling operations to evade security 
                        at the facilities and camps.
                    (B) A description of all efforts undertaken by, and 
                the resources needed for, the United States Government 
                to address deficits in the humanitarian environment and 
                security of such facilities and camps.
                    (C) A description of all multilateral and 
                international engagements related to humanitarian 
                access and provision of basic services to, and freedom 
                of movement and security and safe return of, displaced 
                persons at camps or facilities in Iraq, Syria, and any 
                other area affected by ISIS activity, including a 
                description of--
                            (i) support for efforts by the Syrian 
                        Democratic Forces to facilitate the return and 
                        reintegration of displaced people from Iraq and 
                        Syria;
                            (ii) repatriation efforts with respect to 
                        displaced women and children and male children 
                        aging into adults while held in these 
                        facilities and camps;
                            (iii) any current or future potential 
                        threat to United States national security 
                        interests posed by detained ISIS members or 
                        displaced families, including an analysis of 
                        the al-Hol camp and annexes; and
                            (iv) United States Government plans and 
                        strategies to respond to any threat identified 
                        under clause (iii).
                    (D) The number of individuals repatriated from the 
                custody of the Syrian Democratic Forces.
                    (E) An analysis of factors on the ground in Syria 
                and Iraq that may result in the unintended release of 
                detained or displaced ISIS members, and an assessment 
                of any measures available to mitigate such releases.
                    (F) A detailed description of efforts to encourage 
                the final disposition and security of detained or 
                displaced ISIS members with other countries and 
                international organizations.
                    (G) A description of foreign repatriation and 
                rehabilitation programs deemed successful systems to 
                model, and an analysis of the long-term results of such 
                programs.
                    (H) A description of the manner in which the United 
                States Government communicates regarding repatriation 
                and disposition efforts with the families of United 
                States citizens believed to have been victims of a 
                criminal act by a detained or displaced ISIS member, in 
                accordance with section 503(c) of the Victims' Rights 
                and Restitution Act of 1990 (34 U.S.C. 20141(c)) and 
                section 3771 of title 18, United States Code.
                    (I) An analysis of all efforts between the United 
                States and partner countries within the Global 
                Coalition to Defeat ISIS or other countries to share 
                related information that may aid in resolving the final 
                disposition of ISIS members, and any obstacles that may 
                hinder such efforts.
                    (J) Any other matter the Coordinator considers 
                appropriate.
            (2) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified 
        annex that is transmitted separately.
    (g) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section, or an amendment 
made by this section, may be construed--
            (1) to limit the authority of any Federal agency to 
        independently carry out the authorized functions of such 
        agency; or
            (2) to impair or otherwise affect the activities performed 
        by that agency as granted by law.

   Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Europe and the Russian Federation

SEC. 1331. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF UKRAINE SECURITY ASSISTANCE 
              INITIATIVE.

    (a) Funding.--Subsection (f) of section 1250 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 
Stat. 1068) is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``for overseas contingency operations''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(9) For fiscal year 2024, $300,000,000.''.
    (b) Termination of Authority.--Subsection (h) of such section is 
amended by striking ``December 31, 2024'' and inserting ``December 31, 
2027''.

SEC. 1332. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF TRAINING FOR EASTERN EUROPEAN 
              NATIONAL SECURITY FORCES IN THE COURSE OF MULTILATERAL 
              EXERCISES.

    Section 1251 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016 (10 U.S.C. 333 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)(1), by adding at the end the 
        following new subparagraph:
                    ``(C) The Republic of Kosovo.''; and
            (2) in subsection (h)--
                    (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``December 
                31, 2024'' and inserting ``December 31, 2026''; and
                    (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``December 
                31, 2024.'' and inserting ``December 31, 2026''.

SEC. 1333. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS RELATING 
              TO SOVEREIGNTY OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION OVER 
              INTERNATIONALLY RECOGNIZED TERRITORY OF UKRAINE.

     Section 1245(a) of the James M. Inhofe National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263) is amended 
by striking ``None of the funds'' and all that follows through ``2023'' 
and inserting ``None of the funds authorized to be appropriated for 
fiscal year 2023 or 2024''.

SEC. 1334. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF TEMPORARY AUTHORIZATIONS 
              RELATED TO UKRAINE AND OTHER MATTERS.

    Section 1244 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(7), by striking ``September 30, 
        2024'' and inserting ``September 30, 2025''; and
            (2) in subsection (c)(1)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                inserting ``or fiscal year 2024'' after ``fiscal year 
                2023'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (P), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (C) in subparagraph (Q), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (D) by inserting at the end the following new 
                subparagraphs:
                    ``(R) 3,300 Tomahawk Cruise Missiles;
                    ``(S) 1,100 Precision Strike Missiles (PrSM);
                    ``(T) 550 Mark 48 Torpedoes;
                    ``(U) 1,650 RIM-162 Evolved Sea Sparrow Missiles 
                (ESSM);
                    ``(V) 1,980 RIM-116 Rolling Airframe Missiles 
                (RAM); and
                    ``(W) 11,550 Small Diameter Bomb IIs (SDB-II).''.

SEC. 1335. PRIORITIZATION FOR BASING, TRAINING, AND EXERCISES IN NORTH 
              ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION MEMBER COUNTRIES.

    (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), when considering 
decisions related to United States military basing, training, and 
exercises, the Secretary of Defense shall prioritize those North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization member countries that have achieved 
defense spending of not less than 2 percent of their gross domestic 
product by 2024.
    (b) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense may waive subsection (a) if 
the Secretary submits a certification to the congressional defense 
committees that a waiver is in the national security interests of the 
United States.

SEC. 1336. STUDY AND REPORT ON LESSONS LEARNED REGARDING INFORMATION 
              OPERATIONS AND DETERRENCE.

    (a) Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall seek to 
        enter into a contract or other agreement with an eligible 
        entity to conduct an independent study on lessons learned from 
        information operations conducted by the United States, Ukraine, 
        the Russian Federation, and member countries of the North 
        Atlantic Treaty Organization during the lead-up to the Russian 
        Federation's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022 and 
        throughout the conflict.
            (2) Element.--The study required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include recommendations for improvements to United States 
        information operations to enhance effectiveness, as well as 
        recommendations on how information operations may be improved 
        to support the maintenance of deterrence.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
        the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives a report on the results of the study in its 
        entirety, along with any such comments as the Secretary 
        considers relevant.
            (2) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified 
        annex.
    (c) Eligible Entity Defined.--In this section, the term ``eligible 
entity''--
            (1) means an entity independent of the Department of 
        Defense that is not under the direction or control of the 
        Secretary of Defense; and
            (2) an independent, nongovernmental institute described in 
        section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and 
        exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such Code that has 
        recognized credentials and expertise in national security and 
        military affairs appropriate for the assessment.

SEC. 1337. REPORT ON PROGRESS ON MULTI-YEAR STRATEGY AND PLAN FOR THE 
              BALTIC SECURITY INITIATIVE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with 
the Secretary of State, shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on the progress made in the implementation of the 
multi-year strategy and spending plan set forth in the June 2021 report 
of the Department of Defense entitled ``Report to Congress on the 
Baltic Security Initiative''.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) An identification of any significant change to the 
        goals, objectives, and milestones identified in the June 2021 
        report described in subsection (a), in light of the radically 
        changed security environment in the Baltic region after the 
        full-scale invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation on 
        February 24, 2022, and with consideration to enhancing the 
        deterrence and defense posture of the North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization in the Baltic region, including through the 
        implementation of the regional defense plans of the North 
        Atlantic Treaty Organization.
            (2) An update on the Department of Defense funding 
        allocated for such strategy and spending plan for fiscal years 
        2022 and 2023 and projected funding requirements for fiscal 
        years 2024, 2025, and 2026 for each goal identified in such 
        report.
            (3) An update on the host country funding allocated and 
        planned for each such goal.
            (4) An assessment of the progress made in the 
        implementation of the recommendations set forth in the fiscal 
        year 2020 Baltic Defense Assessment, and reaffirmed in the June 
        2021 report described in subsection (a), that each Baltic 
        country should--
                    (A) increase its defense budget;
                    (B) focus on and budget for sustainment of 
                capabilities in defense planning; and
                    (C) consider combined units for expensive 
                capabilities such as air defense, rocket artillery, and 
                engineer assets.

SEC. 1338. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON THE NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY 
              ORGANIZATION.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the success of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
        is critical to advancing United States national security 
        objectives in Europe, the Indo-Pacific region, and around the 
        world;
            (2) the North Atlantic Treaty Organization remains the 
        strongest and most successful military alliance in the world, 
        founded on a commitment by its members to uphold the principles 
        of democracy, individual liberty, and the rule of law;
            (3) the United States reaffirms its ironclad commitment--
                    (A) to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization as 
                the foundation of transatlantic security; and
                    (B) to upholding its obligations under the North 
                Atlantic Treaty, including Article 5;
            (4) the unprovoked and illegal invasion of Ukraine by the 
        Russian Federation has upended security in Europe and requires 
        the full attention of the transatlantic alliance;
            (5) welcoming Finland as the 31st member of the North 
        Atlantic Treaty Organization has made the North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization Alliance stronger and the remaining North Atlantic 
        Treaty Organization member countries should swiftly ratify the 
        accession protocols of Sweden so as to bolster the collective 
        security of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization by 
        increasing the security and stability of the Baltic Sea region 
        and Northern Europe;
            (6) the North Atlantic Treaty Organization member countries 
        that have not yet met the two-percent defense spending pledge, 
        as agreed to at the 2014 Wales Summit, should endeavor to meet 
        the timeline as expeditiously as possible, but certainly within 
        the five-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of 
        this Act;
            (7) the United States and North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization allies and partners should continue efforts to 
        identify, synchronize, and deliver needed assistance to Ukraine 
        as Ukraine continues the fight against the illegal and unjust 
        war of the Russian Federation;
            (8) the Strategic Concept, agreed to by all North Atlantic 
        Treaty Organization member countries at the Madrid Summit in 
        2022, outlined the focus of the North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization for the upcoming decade, and North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization allies should continue to implement the strategies 
        outlined, including by making efforts to address the challenges 
        posed by the coercive policies of the People's Republic of 
        China that undermine the interests, security, and shared values 
        of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Alliance;
            (9) the United States and North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization allies should continue long-term efforts--
                    (A) to improve interoperability among the military 
                forces of member countries of the North Atlantic Treaty 
                Organization so as to enhance collective operations, 
                including the divestment of Soviet-era capabilities;
                    (B) to enhance security sector cooperation and 
                explore opportunities to reinforce civil sector 
                preparedness and resilience measures that may be likely 
                targets of malign influence campaigns;
                    (C) to mitigate the impact of hybrid warfare 
                operations, particularly those in the information and 
                cyber domains; and
                    (D) to expand joint research and development 
                initiatives with a focus on emerging technologies such 
                as quantum computing, artificial intelligence, and 
                machine learning, including through the work of the 
                Defence Innovation Accelerator for the North Atlantic 
                initiative (commonly known as ``DIANA'');
            (10) the European Deterrence Initiative remains critically 
        important and has demonstrated its unique value to the United 
        States and North Atlantic Treaty Organization allies during the 
        current Russian Federation-created war against Ukraine;
            (11) the United States should continue to work with North 
        Atlantic Treaty Organization allies, and other allies and 
        partners, to build permanent mechanisms to strengthen supply 
        chains, enhance supply chain security, and fill supply chain 
        gaps;
            (12) the United States should prioritize collaboration with 
        North Atlantic Treaty Organization allies to secure enduring 
        and robust critical munitions supply chains so as to increase 
        military readiness;
            (13) the United States and the North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization should expand cooperation efforts on cybersecurity 
        issues to prevent adversaries and criminals from compromising 
        critical systems and infrastructure; and
            (14) it is in the interest of the United States that the 
        North Atlantic Treaty Organization adopt a robust strategy 
        toward the Black Sea, and the United States should also 
        consider working with interested partner countries to advance a 
        coordinated strategy inclusive of diverse elements of 
        transatlantic security architecture in the Black Sea region.

SEC. 1339. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON DEFENCE INNOVATION ACCELERATOR FOR 
              THE NORTH ATLANTIC (DIANA) IN THE NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY 
              ORGANIZATION.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the new initiative within the North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization (NATO) to establish a new research and development 
        initiative, known as the Defence Innovation Accelerator for the 
        North Atlantic (DIANA), is an important step in aligning the 
        industry and academic innovation communities of the NATO member 
        states towards common goals for identifying, experimenting, and 
        transitioning critical technologies of importance to NATO;
            (2) DIANA will spur increased defense research and 
        development funding to rapidly adapt to a new era of strategic 
        competition by bringing defense personnel together with NATO's 
        leading entrepreneurs and academic researchers;
            (3) DIANA will also increase opportunities for engagement 
        on NATO's priority technology areas, including artificial 
        intelligence, data, autonomy, quantum-enabled technologies, 
        biotechnology, hypersonic technologies, space, novel materials 
        and manufacturing, and energy and propulsion; and
            (4) through DIANA, NATO allies will foster innovative 
        ecosystems and develop talent for dual use technologies to 
        maintain NATO's strategic advantage.

SEC. 1340. SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING THE ARMING OF UKRAINE.

    It is the sense of the Senate that Ukraine would derive military 
benefit from the provision of munitions such as the dual-purpose 
improved conventional munition (DPICM). Such weapons could be fired 
from systems in the existing Ukrainian inventory and would enhance 
Ukraine's stockpile of available munitions and would bolster Ukraine's 
efforts to end Russia's illegal and unjust war. The Department of 
Defense, in concert with the other members of the Ukraine Defense 
Contract Group, should continue to support Ukraine's brave fight to 
defeat the invasion of the Russian Federation. The Department of 
Defense, in close coordination with the State Department, should assess 
the feasibility and advisability of providing such munitions, including 
giving appropriate attention to humanitarian considerations, including 
supporting Ukraine's effort to end the widespread suffering of the 
Ukrainian people by bringing Russia's war of choice to an end as soon 
as possible on terms favorable to Ukraine, as well as the views of 
other members of the Ukraine Defense Contract Group.

        Subtitle D--Matters Relating to the Indo-Pacific Region

SEC. 1341. INDO-PACIFIC CAMPAIGNING INITIATIVE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish, and the 
Commander of the United States Indo-Pacific Command shall carry out, an 
Indo-Pacific Campaigning Initiative (in this section referred to as the 
``Initiative'') for purposes of--
            (1) strengthening United States alliances and partnerships 
        with foreign military partners in the Indo-Pacific region;
            (2) deterring military aggression by potential adversaries 
        against the United States and allies and partners of the United 
        States;
            (3) dissuading strategic competitors from seeking to 
        achieve their objectives through the conduct of military 
        activities below the threshold of traditional armed conflict;
            (4) improving the understanding of the United States Armed 
        Forces with respect to the operating environment in the Indo-
        Pacific region;
            (5) shaping the perception of potential adversaries with 
        respect to United States military capabilities and the military 
        capabilities of allies and partners of the United States in the 
        Indo-Pacific region; and
            (6) improving the ability of the United States Armed Forces 
        to coordinate and operate with foreign military partners in the 
        Indo-Pacific region.
    (b) Briefing and Report.--
            (1) Briefing.--Not later than March 1, 2024, the Secretary 
        shall provide the congressional defense committees with a 
        briefing that describes ongoing and planned campaigning 
        activities in the Indo-Pacific region for fiscal year 2024.
            (2) Report.--Not later than December 1, 2024, the Secretary 
        shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
        that--
                    (A) summarizes the campaigning activities conducted 
                in the Indo-Pacific region during fiscal year 2024; and
                    (B) includes--
                            (i) a value assessment of each such 
                        activity;
                            (ii) lessons learned in carrying out such 
                        activities;
                            (iii) any identified resource or authority 
                        gap that has negatively impacted the 
                        implementation of the Initiative; and
                            (iv) proposed plans for additional 
                        campaigning activities in the Indo-Pacific 
                        region to fulfill the purposes described in 
                        subsection (a).
    (c) Campaigning Defined.--In this section, the term 
``campaigning''--
            (1) means the conduct and sequencing of logically linked 
        military activities to achieve strategy-aligned objectives, 
        including modifying the security environment over time to the 
        benefit of the United States and the allies and partners of the 
        United States while limiting, frustrating, and disrupting 
        competitor activities; and
            (2) includes deliberately planned military activities in 
        the Indo-Pacific region involving bilateral and multilateral 
        engagements with foreign partners, training, exercises, 
        demonstrations, experiments, and other activities to achieve 
        the objectives described in subsection (a).

SEC. 1342. TRAINING, ADVISING, AND INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY-BUILDING 
              PROGRAM FOR MILITARY FORCES OF TAIWAN.

    (a) Establishment.--Consistent with the Taiwan Relations Act (22 
U.S.C. 3301 et seq.) and the Taiwan Enhanced Resilience Act (subtitle A 
of title LV of Public Law 117-263), the Secretary of Defense, with the 
concurrence of the Secretary of State and in consultation with 
appropriate officials of Taiwan, shall establish a comprehensive 
training, advising, and institutional capacity-building program for the 
military forces of Taiwan using the authorities provided in chapter 16 
of title 10, United States Code, and other applicable statutory 
authorities available to the Secretary of Defense.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of the program established under 
subsection (a) shall be--
            (1) to enable a layered defense of Taiwan by the military 
        forces of Taiwan, including in support of the use of an 
        asymmetric defense strategy;
            (2) to enhance interoperability between the United States 
        Armed Forces and the military forces of Taiwan;
            (3) to encourage information sharing between the United 
        States Armed Forces and the military forces of Taiwan;
            (4) to promote joint force employment; and
            (5) to improve professional military education and the 
        civilian control of the military.
    (c) Elements.--The program established under subsection (a) shall 
include efforts to improve--
            (1) the tactical proficiency of the military forces of 
        Taiwan;
            (2) the operational employment of the military forces of 
        Taiwan to conduct a layered defense of Taiwan, including in 
        support of an asymmetric defense strategy;
            (3) the employment of joint military capabilities by the 
        military forces of Taiwan, including through joint military 
        training, exercises, and planning;
            (4) the reform and integration of the reserve military 
        forces of Taiwan;
            (5) the use of defense articles and services transferred 
        from the United States to Taiwan;
            (6) the integration of the military forces of Taiwan with 
        relevant civilian agencies, including the All-Out Defense 
        Mobilization Agency;
            (7) the ability of Taiwan to participate in bilateral and 
        multilateral military exercises, as appropriate;
            (8) the defensive cyber capabilities and practices of the 
        Ministry of National Defense of Taiwan; and
            (9) any other matter the Secretary of Defense considers 
        relevant.
    (d) Deconfliction, Coordination, and Concurrence.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall deconflict, coordinate, and seek the concurrence of the 
Secretary of State and the heads of other relevant departments and 
agencies with respect to activities carried out under the program 
required by subsection (a), in accordance with the requirements of the 
authorities provided in chapter 16 of title 10, United States Code, and 
other applicable statutory authorities available to the Secretary of 
Defense.
    (e) Reporting.--As part of each annual report on Taiwan defensive 
military capabilities and intelligence support required by section 1248 
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public 
Law 117-81; 135 Stat. 1988), the Secretary of Defense shall provide--
            (1) an update on efforts made to address each element under 
        subsection (c); and
            (2) an identification of any authority or resource 
        shortfall that inhibits such efforts.

SEC. 1343. INDO-PACIFIC MARITIME DOMAIN AWARENESS INITIATIVE.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
the Secretary of State, shall seek to establish an initiative with 
allies and partners of the United States, including Australia, Japan, 
and India, to be known as the ``Indo-Pacific Maritime Domain Awareness 
Initiative'' (in this section referred to as the ``Initiative''), to 
bolster maritime domain awareness in the Indo-Pacific region.
    (b) Use of Authorities.--In carrying out the Initiative, the 
Secretary of Defense may use the authorities provided in chapter 16 of 
title 10, United States Code, and other applicable statutory 
authorities available to the Secretary of Defense.
    (c) Purposes.--The purposes of the Initiative are as follows:
            (1) To enhance the ability of allies and partners of the 
        United States in the Indo-Pacific region to fully monitor the 
        maritime domain of such region.
            (2) To leverage emerging technologies to support maritime 
        domain awareness objectives.
            (3) To provide a comprehensive understanding of the 
        maritime domain in the Indo-Pacific region, including by 
        facilitating information sharing among such allies and 
        partners.
    (d) Report.--Not later than March 1, 2024, the Secretary of Defense 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that 
outlines ongoing and planned activities of the Initiative, and the 
resources needed to carry out the such activities, for fiscal year 
2025.

SEC. 1344. EXTENSION OF PACIFIC DETERRENCE INITIATIVE.

    (a) Extension.--Subsection (c) of section 1251 of the William M. 
(Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2021 (10 U.S.C. 113 note) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2023'' and inserting ``the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024''; and
            (2) by striking ``fiscal year 2023'' and inserting ``fiscal 
        year 2024''.
    (b) Report on Resourcing United States Defense Requirements for the 
Indo-Pacific Region and Study on Competitive Strategies.--Subsection 
(d)(1)(A) of such section is amended by striking ``fiscal years 2023 
and 2024'' and inserting ``fiscal years 2024 and 2025''.

SEC. 1345. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER FUNDS FOR BIEN HOA DIOXIN 
              CLEANUP.

    Section 1253(b) of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116-283; 134 Stat. 
3955) is amended by striking ``fiscal year 2023'' and inserting 
``fiscal year 2024''.

SEC. 1346. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF PILOT PROGRAM TO IMPROVE CYBER 
              COOPERATION WITH FOREIGN MILITARY PARTNERS IN SOUTHEAST 
              ASIA.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 1256 of the William M. 
(Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2021 (Public Law 116-283; 134 Stat. 3956; 10 U.S.C. 333 note) is 
amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``in 
        Vietnam, Thailand, and Indonesia'' and inserting ``with covered 
        foreign military partners'';
            (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Vietnam, Thailand, and 
        Indonesia'' and inserting ``covered foreign military 
        partners''; and
            (3) in paragraph (2), by striking ``Vietnam, Thailand, and 
        Indonesia on'' and inserting ``covered foreign military 
        partners on defensive''.
    (b) Elements.--Subsection (b) of such section is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Vietnam, Thailand, and 
        Indonesia'' and inserting ``covered foreign military 
        partners''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``Vietnam, Thailand, and 
        Indonesia'' and inserting ``covered foreign military 
        partners''.
    (c) Reports.--Subsection (c)(2)(B) of such title is amended by 
striking ``Vietnam, Thailand, and Indonesia'' and inserting ``covered 
foreign military partners''.
    (d) Certification.--Subsection (d) of such section is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``with any covered foreign military 
        partner'' after ``scheduled to commence''; and
            (2) by striking ``Vietnam, Indonesia, or Thailand'' and 
        inserting ``the covered foreign military partner''.
    (e) Extension.--Subsection (e) of such section is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2024'' and inserting ``December 31, 2029''.
    (f) Definitions.--Subsection (f) of such section is amended to read 
as follows:
    ``(f) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        `appropriate committees of Congress' means--
                    ``(A) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
                    ``(B) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives.
            ``(2) Covered foreign military partner.--The term `covered 
        foreign military partner' means the following:
                    ``(A) Vietnam.
                    ``(B) Thailand.
                    ``(C) Indonesia.
                    ``(D) The Philippines.
                    ``(E) Malaysia.''.
    (g) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 1256 of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public 
        Law 116-283; 134 Stat. 3956; 10 U.S.C. 333 note) is amended, in 
        the section heading, by striking ``vietnam, thailand, and 
        indonesia'' and inserting ``covered foreign military partners 
        in southeast asia''.
            (2) The table of contents for the William M. (Mac) 
        Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
        2021 (Public Law 116-283; 134 Stat. 3388) is amended by 
        striking the item relating to section 1256 and inserting the 
        following:

``Sec. 1256. Pilot program to improve cyber cooperation with covered 
                            foreign military partners in Southeast 
                            Asia.''.
            (3) The table of contents for title XII of the William M. 
        (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2021 (Public Law 116-283; 134 Stat. 3905) is amended by 
        striking the item relating to section 1256 and inserting the 
        following:

``Sec. 1256. Pilot program to improve cyber cooperation with covered 
                            foreign military partners in Southeast 
                            Asia.''.

SEC. 1347. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF CERTAIN TEMPORARY 
              AUTHORIZATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 1244 of the James M. Inhofe National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263; 136 
Stat. 2844) is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``other matters'' 
        and inserting ``taiwan''; and
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``or 
                        the Government of Taiwan'' after ``the 
                        Government of Ukraine''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ``or 
                        the Government of Taiwan'' after ``the 
                        Government of Ukraine'';
                    (B) in paragraph (5)--
                            (i) by striking subparagraph (A) and 
                        inserting the following:
                    ``(A) the replacement of defense articles from 
                stocks of the Department of Defense provided to--
                            ``(i) the Government of Ukraine;
                            ``(ii) foreign countries that have provided 
                        support to Ukraine at the request of the United 
                        States;
                            ``(iii) the Government of Taiwan; or
                            ``(iv) foreign countries that have provided 
                        support to Taiwan at the request of the United 
                        States; or''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``or 
                        the Government of Taiwan'' before the period at 
                        the end;
                    (C) in paragraph (7), by striking ``September 30, 
                2024'' and inserting ``September 30, 2028'';
                    (D) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph 
                (8); and
                    (E) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following 
                new paragraph (7):
            ``(7) Notification.--Not later than 7 days after the 
        exercise of authority under subsection (a) the Secretary of 
        Defense shall notify the congressional defense committees of 
        the specific authority exercises, the relevant contract, and 
        the estimated reductions in schedule.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) The table of contents at the beginning of the James M. 
        Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 
        (Public Law 117-263; 136 Stat. 2395) is amended by striking the 
        item relating to section 1244 and inserting the following:

``Sec. 1244. Temporary authorizations related to Ukraine and Taiwan.''.
            (2) The table of contents at the beginning of title XII of 
        the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263; 136 Stat. 2820) is 
        amended by striking the item relating to section 1244 and 
        inserting the following:

``Sec. 1244. Temporary authorizations related to Ukraine and Taiwan.''.

SEC. 1348. PLAN FOR ENHANCED SECURITY COOPERATION WITH JAPAN.

    (a) In General.--Not later than June 1, 2024, the Secretary of 
Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, shall submit to 
the appropriate committees of Congress a plan for enhancing United 
States security cooperation with Japan.
    (b) Elements.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A plan for--
                    (A) increased bilateral training, exercises, 
                combined patrols, and other activities between the 
                United States Armed Forces and the Self-Defense Forces 
                of Japan;
                    (B) increasing multilateral military-to-military 
                engagements involving the United States Armed Forces, 
                the Self-Defense Forces of Japan, and the military 
                forces of other regional allies and partners, including 
                Australia, India, the Republic of Korea, and the 
                Philippines, as appropriate;
                    (C) increased sharing of intelligence and other 
                information, including the adoption of enhanced 
                security protocols;
                    (D) current mechanisms, processes, and plans to 
                coordinate and engage with the Joint Headquarters of 
                the Self-Defense Forces of Japan; and
                    (E) enhancing cooperation on advanced technology 
                initiatives, including artificial intelligence, cyber, 
                space, undersea, hypersonic, and related technologies.
            (2) An analysis of the feasibility and advisability of--
                    (A) increasing combined planning efforts between 
                the United States and Japan to address potential 
                regional contingencies;
                    (B) modifying United States command structures in 
                Japan--
                            (i) to coordinate all United States 
                        military activities and operations in Japan;
                            (ii) to complement similar changes by the 
                        Self-Defense Forces of Japan; and
                            (iii) to facilitate integrated planning and 
                        implementation of combined activities; and
                    (C) additional modifications to the force posture 
                of the United States Armed Forces in Japan, including 
                the establishment of additional main operating 
                locations, cooperative security locations, contingency 
                locations, and other forward operating sites.
            (3) An identification of challenges to the implementation 
        of the plan required by subsection (a) and any recommended 
        legislative changes, resourcing requirements, bilateral 
        agreements, or other measures that would facilitate the 
        implementation of such plan.
    (c) Form.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on 
        Armed Services of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on 
        Armed Services of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 1349. PLAN FOR IMPROVEMENTS TO CERTAIN OPERATING LOCATIONS IN 
              INDO-PACIFIC REGION.

    (a) Identification of Operating Locations.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a 
        classified survey to identify each United States operating 
        location within the area of responsibility of the United States 
        Indo-Pacific Command, including in the First, Second, and Third 
        Island Chains, that--
                    (A) may be used to respond militarily to aggression 
                by the People's Republic of China; and
                    (B) is considered to not be sufficiently capable of 
                mitigating damage to aircraft of the United States 
                Armed Forces in the event of a missile, aerial drone, 
                or other form of attack by the People's Republic of 
                China.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report on the results of the 
        survey under paragraph (1).
    (b) Plan.--Not later than 60 days after the date on which the 
report required by paragraph (2) of subsection (a) is submitted, the 
Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a plan--
            (1) to implement improvements, as appropriate, to operating 
        locations identified under that subsection so as to increase 
        the survivability of aircraft of the United States Armed Forces 
        in the event of a missile, aerial drone, or other form of 
        attack b3y the People's Republic of China; and
            (2) that includes an articulation of other means for 
        increasing survivability of such aircraft in the event of such 
        an attack, including dispersal and deception.
    (c) Form.--The report and plan required by this section shall be 
submitted in classified form.

SEC. 1350. STRATEGY FOR IMPROVING POSTURE OF GROUND-BASED THEATER-RANGE 
              MISSILES IN INDO-PACIFIC REGION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a strategy for improving the posture 
of ground-based theater-range missile capabilities in the Indo-Pacific 
region.
    (b) Elements.--The strategy required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) An assessment of gaps in conventional ground-based 
        theater-range precision strike capabilities in the area of 
        responsibility of the United States Indo-Pacific Command.
            (2) An identification of military requirements for 
        conventional ground-based theater-range missile systems, 
        including range, propulsion, payload, launch platform, weapon 
        effects, and other operationally relevant factors in the Indo-
        Pacific region.
            (3) An identification of prospective basing locations in 
        the area of responsibility of the United States Indo-Pacific 
        Command, including an articulation of the bilateral agreements 
        necessary to support such deployments.
            (4) A description of operational concepts for employment, 
        including integration with short-range and multi-domain fires, 
        in denial operations in the Western Pacific.
            (5) An identification of prospective foreign partners and 
        institutional mechanisms for co-development and co-production 
        of new theater-range conventional missiles.
            (6) An assessment of the cost and schedule of developmental 
        ground-based theater-range missiles programs, including any 
        potential cost-sharing arrangements with foreign partners 
        through existing institutional mechanisms.
            (7) The designation of a theater component commander or 
        joint task force commander within the United States Indo-
        Pacific Command responsible for developing a theater missile 
        strategy.
            (8) Any other matter the Secretary considers relevant.
    (c) Form.--The strategy required by subsection (a) may be submitted 
in classified form but shall include an unclassified summary.
    (d) Ground-based Theater-range Missile Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``ground-based theater-range missile'' means a conventional 
mobile ground-launched ballistic or cruise missile system with a range 
between 500 and 5,500 kilometers.

SEC. 1351. ENHANCING MAJOR DEFENSE PARTNERSHIP WITH INDIA.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the 
Secretary of State and the head of any other relevant Federal 
department or agency, shall seek to ensure that India is appropriately 
considered for security cooperation benefits consistent with the status 
of India as a major defense partner of the United States, including 
with respect to the following lines of effort:
            (1) Eligibility for funding to initiate or facilitate 
        cooperative research, development, testing, or evaluation 
        projects with the Department of Defense, with priority given to 
        projects in the areas of--
                    (A) artificial intelligence;
                    (B) undersea domain awareness;
                    (C) air combat and support;
                    (D) munitions; and
                    (E) mobility.
            (2) Eligibility to enter into reciprocal agreements with 
        the Department of Defense for the cooperative provision of 
        training on a bilateral or multilateral basis in support of 
        programs for the purpose of building capacity in the areas of--
                    (A) counterterrorism operations;
                    (B) counter-weapons of mass destruction operations;
                    (C) counter-illicit drug trafficking operations;
                    (D) counter-transnational organized crime 
                operations;
                    (E) maritime and border security operations;
                    (F) military intelligence operations;
                    (G) air domain awareness operations; and
                    (H) cyberspace security and defensive cyberspace 
                operations.
            (3) Eligibility to enter into a memorandum of understanding 
        or other formal agreement with the Department of Defense for 
        the purpose of conducting cooperative research and development 
        projects on defense equipment and munitions.
            (4) Eligibility for companies from India to bid on 
        contracts for the maintenance, repair, or overhaul of 
        Department of Defense equipment located outside the United 
        States.
    (b) Briefing.--Not later than March 1, 2024, the Secretary of 
Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State and the head of 
any other relevant Federal department or agency, shall provide the 
congressional defense committees, the Committee on Foreign Relations of 
the Senate, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
Representatives with a briefing on the status of security cooperation 
activities with India, including the lines of effort specified in 
subsection (a).

SEC. 1352. MILITARY CYBERSECURITY COOPERATION WITH TAIWAN.

    (a) Requirement.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, acting through the 
Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, with the concurrence of the 
Secretary of State and in coordination with the Commander of the United 
States Cyber Command and the Commander of the United States Indo-
Pacific Command, shall seek to engage with appropriate officials of 
Taiwan for the purpose of expanding cooperation on military 
cybersecurity activities using the authorities under chapter 16 of 
title 10, United States Code, and other applicable statutory 
authorities available to the Secretary of Defense.
    (b) Cooperation Efforts.--In expanding the cooperation of military 
cybersecurity activities between the Department of Defense and the 
military forces of Taiwan under subsection (a), the Secretary of 
Defense may carry out efforts--
            (1) to actively defend military networks, infrastructure, 
        and systems;
            (2) to eradicate malicious cyber activity that has 
        compromised such networks, infrastructure, and systems;
            (3) to leverage United States commercial and military 
        cybersecurity technology and services to harden and defend such 
        networks, infrastructure, and systems; and
            (4) to conduct combined cybersecurity training activities 
        and exercises.
    (c) Briefings.--
            (1) Requirement.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
        coordination with the Secretary of State, shall provide to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress a briefing on the 
        implementation of this section.
            (2) Contents.--The briefing under paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A description of the feasibility and 
                advisability of expanding the cooperation on military 
                cybersecurity activities between the Department of 
                Defense and the military forces of Taiwan.
                    (B) An identification of any challenges and 
                resources that need to be addressed so as to expand 
                such cooperation.
                    (C) An overview of efforts undertaken pursuant to 
                this section.
                    (D) Any other matter the Secretary considers 
                relevant.
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 1353. DESIGNATION OF SENIOR OFFICIAL FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              ACTIVITIES RELATING TO, AND IMPLEMENTATION PLAN FOR, 
              SECURITY PARTNERSHIP AMONG AUSTRALIA, THE UNITED KINGDOM, 
              AND THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) Designation of Senior Official.--Not later than 90 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
designate a senior civilian official of the Department of Defense who 
shall be responsible for overseeing Department of Defense activities 
relating to the security partnership among Australia, the United 
Kingdom, and the United States (commonly known as the ``AUKUS 
partnership'').
    (b) Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
        coordination with the Administrator for Nuclear Security and 
        the Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate 
        committees of Congress an implementation plan outlining 
        Department efforts relating to the AUKUS partnership.
            (2) Elements.--The plan required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) Timelines and major anticipated milestones for 
                the implementation of the AUKUS partnership.
                    (B) An identification of dependencies of such 
                milestones on defense requirements that are--
                            (i) unrelated to the AUKUS partnership; and
                            (ii) solely within the decisionmaking 
                        responsibility of Australia or the United 
                        Kingdom.
                    (C) Recommendations for adjustments to statutory 
                and regulatory export authorities or frameworks, 
                including technology transfer and protection, necessary 
                to efficiently implement the AUKUS partnership.
                    (D) A consideration of the implications of the plan 
                on the industrial base with respect to--
                            (i) the expansion of existing United States 
                        submarine construction capacity to fulfill 
                        United States, United Kingdom, and Australia 
                        requirements;
                            (ii) acceleration of the restoration of 
                        United States capabilities for producing highly 
                        enriched uranium to fuel submarine reactors;
                            (iii) stabilization of commodity markets 
                        and expanding supplies of high-grade steel, 
                        construction materials, and other resources 
                        required for improving shipyard condition and 
                        expanding throughput capacity; and
                            (iv) coordination and synchronization of 
                        industrial sourcing opportunities among 
                        Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United 
                        States.
                    (E) A description of resourcing and personnel 
                requirements, including the hiring of additional 
                foreign disclosure officers.
                    (F) A plan for improving information sharing, 
                including--
                            (i) recommendations for modifications to 
                        foreign disclosure policies and processes;
                            (ii) the promulgation of written 
                        information-sharing guidelines or policies to 
                        improve information sharing under the AUKUS 
                        partnership;
                            (iii) the establishment of an information 
                        handling caveat specific to the AUKUS 
                        partnership; and
                            (iv) the reduction in use of the Not 
                        Releasable to Foreign Nations (NOFORN) 
                        information handling caveat.
                    (G) Processes for the protection of privately held 
                intellectual property, including patents.
                    (H) A plan to leverage, for the AUKUS partnership, 
                any relevant existing cybersecurity or technology 
                partnership or cooperation activity between the United 
                States and the United Kingdom or between the United 
                States and Australia.
                    (I) Recommended updates to other statutory, 
                regulatory, policy, or process frameworks.
                    (J) Any other matter the Secretary of Defense 
                considers appropriate.
    (c) Semiannual Updates.--Not later than 60 days after the date on 
which the plan required by subsection (b) is submitted, and 
semiannually thereafter on April 1 and October 1 each year through 
2029, the senior civilian official designated under subsection (a) 
shall provide the congressional defense committees with a briefing on 
the status of all Department activities to implement the AUKUS 
partnership.
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        Senate; and
            (2) the Committees on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        House of Representatives.

SEC. 1354. REPORT AND NOTIFICATION RELATING TO TRANSFER OF OPERATIONAL 
              CONTROL ON KOREAN PENINSULA.

    (a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
the Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
Congress a report that--
            (1) describes the conditions under which the military 
        forces of the Republic of Korea would be prepared to assume 
        wartime operational control of the United States and Republic 
        of Korea Combined Forces Command; and
            (2) includes an assessment of the extent to which the 
        military forces of the Republic of Korea meet such conditions 
        as of the date on which the report is submitted.
    (b) Notification.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days before the date on 
        which wartime operational control of the United States and 
        Republic of Korea Combined Forces Command is transferred to the 
        Republic of Korea, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination 
        with the Secretary of State, shall notify the appropriate 
        committees of Congress of such transfer.
            (2) Elements.--The notification required by paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) An assessment of the extent to which the 
                military forces of the Republic of Korea meet the 
                conditions described in the report submitted under 
                subsection (a), including with respect to the 
                acquisition by the Republic of Korea of necessary 
                military capabilities to counter the capabilities of 
                the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
                    (B) A description of the command relationship among 
                the United Nations Command, the United States and 
                Republic of Korea Combined Forces Command, the United 
                States Forces Korea, and the military forces of the 
                Republic of Korea.
                    (C) An assessment of the extent to which such 
                transfer impacts the security of the United States, the 
                Republic of Korea, and other regional allies and 
                partners.
    (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 1355. REPORT ON RANGE OF CONSEQUENCES OF WAR WITH THE PEOPLE'S 
              REPUBLIC OF CHINA.

    (a) In General.--Not later than December 1, 2024, the Director of 
the Office of Net Assessment shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on the range of geopolitical and economic 
consequences of a United States-People's Republic of China conflict in 
2030.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall--
            (1) account for potential--
                    (A) attacks within the homelands of the United 
                States and the People's Republic of China, including 
                cyber threats and the potential disruption of critical 
                infrastructure;
                    (B) impacts on the United States Armed Forces and 
                the military forces of United States allies and 
                partners, including loss of life, capabilities, United 
                States force posture, and United States alliances in 
                the Indo-Pacific region;
                    (C) impacts on the military forces of the People's 
                Republic of China, including loss of life and 
                capabilities;
                    (D) impacts on the civilian populations of Japan, 
                Taiwan, Australia, and other countries in the Indo-
                Pacific region;
                    (E) disruption of the global economy; and
                    (F) any other matter the Director of the Office of 
                Net Assessment considers relevant; and
            (2) include a review of previous attempts in history to 
        forecast the consequences and costs of war.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Briefing.--Not less than 14 days before the date on which the 
report required by subsection (a) is submitted, the Director of the 
Office of Net Assessment shall provide a briefing to the congressional 
defense committees on the conclusions of the report.

SEC. 1356. STUDY AND REPORT ON COMMAND STRUCTURE AND FORCE POSTURE OF 
              UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES IN INDO-PACIFIC REGION.

    (a) Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall seek to 
        enter into an agreement with a federally funded research and 
        development center to conduct an independent study for the 
        purpose of improving the current command structure and force 
        posture of the United States Armed Forces in the area of 
        responsibility of the United States Indo-Pacific Command.
            (2) Report to secretary.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, the federally funded 
                research and development center selected to conduct the 
                study required by paragraph (1) shall submit to the 
                Secretary a report on the findings of the study.
                    (B) Elements.--The report required by subparagraph 
                (A) shall include the following:
                            (i) An assessment of--
                                    (I) the current command structure 
                                of the United States Armed Forces in 
                                the area of responsibility of the 
                                United States Indo-Pacific Command;
                                    (II) the current force posture, 
                                basing, access, and overflight 
                                agreements of the United States Armed 
                                Forces in such area of responsibility; 
                                and
                                    (III) any operational or command 
                                and control challenge resulting from 
                                the geography, current force posture of 
                                the United States Armed Forces, or 
                                current command structure of the United 
                                States Armed Forces in the area of 
                                responsibility of the United States 
                                Indo-Pacific Command.
                            (ii) Any recommendation for--
                                    (I) adjustments to the force 
                                posture of the United States Armed 
                                Forces in such area of responsibility, 
                                including an identification of any 
                                additional basing, access, and 
                                overflight agreement that may be 
                                necessary in response to the changing 
                                security environment in such area of 
                                responsibility;
                                    (II) modifying the current 
                                organizational and command structure of 
                                the United States Indo-Pacific Command, 
                                including United States Forces Japan 
                                and United States Forces Korea, in 
                                response to such changing security 
                                environment; or
                                    (III) improving the ability to 
                                better coordinate with allies and 
                                partners during peacetime and conflict.
    (b) Report to Congress.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than February 1, 2025, the 
        Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
        an unaltered copy of the report submitted to the Secretary 
        under subsection (a)(2), together with the views of the 
        Secretary on the findings set forth in such report and any 
        corresponding recommendation.
            (2) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified 
        annex.
            (3) Public availability.--The Secretary shall make 
        available to the public the unclassified form of the report 
        required by paragraph (1).

SEC. 1357. STUDIES ON DEFENSE BUDGET TRANSPARENCY OF THE PEOPLE'S 
              REPUBLIC OF CHINA AND THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) Studies Required.--
            (1) Defense intelligence agency study.--Not later than 180 
        days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
        of Defense, acting through the Director of the Defense 
        Intelligence Agency, shall--
                    (A) complete a study on the defense budget of the 
                People's Republic of China;
                    (B) submit to the Committees on Armed Services of 
                the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on 
                the results of the study; and
                    (C) make the results of the study available to the 
                public on the internet website of the Department of 
                Defense.
            (2) Secretary of defense study.--Not later than 90 days 
        after the date on which the study required by paragraph (1) is 
        submitted, the Secretary of Defense shall--
                    (A) complete a comparative study on the defense 
                budgets of the People's Republic of China and the 
                United States;
                    (B) submit to the Committees on Armed Services of 
                the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on 
                the results of the study; and
                    (C) make the results of the study available to the 
                public on the internet website of the Department of 
                Defense.
            (3) Methodology.--The studies required by paragraphs (1) 
        and (2) shall each employ a robust methodology that--
                    (A) does not depend on the official pronouncements 
                of the Government of the People's Republic of China or 
                the Chinese Communist Party;
                    (B) takes into account the military-civil fusion 
                present in the People's Republic of China; and
                    (C) employs the building-block method of analysis 
                or a similar method of analysis, as appropriate.
            (4) Objective.--The objective of the studies required by 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) shall be to provide the people of the 
        United States with an accurate comparison of the defense 
        spending of the People's Republic of China and the United 
        States.
    (b) Elements.--At a minimum, the studies required by this section 
shall do the following:
            (1) Determine the amounts invested by each subject country 
        across functional categories for spending, including--
                    (A) defense-related research and development;
                    (B) weapons procurement from domestic and foreign 
                sources;
                    (C) operations and maintenance;
                    (D) pay and benefits;
                    (E) military pensions; and
                    (F) any other category the Secretary considers 
                relevant.
            (2) Consider the effects of purchasing power parity and 
        market exchange rates, particularly on nontraded goods.
            (3) Estimate the magnitude of omitted spending from 
        official defense budget information and account for such 
        spending in the comparison.
            (4) Exclude spending related to veterans' benefits, other 
        than military pensions provided to veterans.
    (c) Considerations.--The studies required by this section may take 
into consideration the following:
            (1) The effects of state-owned enterprises on the defense 
        expenditures of the People's Republic of China.
            (2) The role of differing acquisition policies and 
        structures with respect to the defense expenditures of each 
        subject country.
            (3) Any other matter relevant to evaluating the resources 
        dedicated to the defense spending or the various military-
        related outlays of the People's Republic of China.
    (d) Form.--The studies required by this section shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, free of handling restrictions, but may include 
classified annexes.

SEC. 1358. BRIEFING ON PROVISION OF SECURITY ASSISTANCE BY THE PEOPLE'S 
              REPUBLIC OF CHINA AND SUMMARY OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              MITIGATION ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Briefing.--Not later than March 1, 2024, the Secretary of 
Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, shall provide to 
the appropriate committees of Congress a briefing that describes the 
provision of security assistance and training by the People's Republic 
of China to foreign military forces for the purpose of achieving the 
national objectives of the People's Republic of China.
    (b) Summary of Mitigation Activities.--As part of the first report 
submitted under section 1206(c)(2) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117-81; 135 Stat. 
1960; 10 U.S.C. 301 note) after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
Congress a summary of Department of Defense activities designed to 
mitigate the provision of security assistance and training referred to 
in subsection (a), including such activities that--
            (1) strengthen United States alliances and partnerships 
        with foreign military partners;
            (2) identify countries or governments to which the People's 
        Republic of China provides such security assistance or military 
        training;
            (3) dissuade countries and governments from relying on the 
        People's Republic of China as a partner for such security 
        assistance and military training;
            (4) identify any manner in which the United States, or 
        close allies of the United States, may engage with countries 
        and governments to be the preferred partner for security 
        assistance and military training; and
            (5) improve the ability of the United States Armed Forces 
        to coordinate and operate with allies and partners for purposes 
        of mitigating the provision of security assistance and military 
        training by the People's Republic of China.
    (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress.--In this section, the term 
``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on 
        Armed Services of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on 
        Armed Services of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 1359. SEMIANNUAL BRIEFINGS ON BILATERAL AGREEMENTS SUPPORTING 
              UNITED STATES MILITARY POSTURE IN THE INDO-PACIFIC 
              REGION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter through fiscal 
year 2027, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary 
of State, shall provide the appropriate committees of Congress with a 
briefing on bilateral agreements supporting the United States military 
posture in the Indo-Pacific region.
    (b) Elements.--Each briefing required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) An update on notable changes to elements described in 
        section 1262(b) of the James M. Inhofe National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263; 136 
        Stat. 2857).
            (2) An assessment of the impact on United States military 
        operations if any individual or combination of allies and 
        partners were to deny continued access, basing, or overflight 
        rights, including with respect to--
                    (A) forward presence;
                    (B) agile basing;
                    (C) pre-positioned materials; or
                    (D) fueling and resupply.
    (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
        Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the 
        House of Representatives.

SEC. 1360. SEMIANNUAL BRIEFINGS ON MILITARY OF THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF 
              CHINA.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than every 180 days 
thereafter through March 30, 2027, the Secretary of Defense shall 
provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on--
            (1) the military activities of the People's Republic of 
        China with respect to Taiwan and the South China Sea;
            (2) efforts by the Department of Defense to engage with the 
        People's Liberation Army; and
            (3) United States efforts to enable the defense of Taiwan 
        and bolster maritime security in the South China Sea.
    (b) Elements.--Each briefing required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) An update on--
                    (A) military developments of the People's Republic 
                of China relating to any possible Taiwan or South China 
                Sea contingency, including upgrades to the weapon 
                systems of the People's Republic of China, the 
                procurement of new weapons by the People's Republic of 
                China, and changes to the posture of the People's 
                Liberation Army;
                    (B) military equipment acquired by Taiwan pursuant 
                to the Presidential drawdown authority under section 
                506(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
                2318(a)) or through the direct commercial sales or 
                foreign military sales processes;
                    (C) United States efforts to deter aggression by 
                the People's Republic of China in the Indo-Pacific 
                region, including any campaigning or exercise 
                activities conducted by the United States; and
                    (D) United States efforts to train the military 
                forces of Taiwan and allies and partners in Southeast 
                Asia.
            (2) The most recent information regarding the readiness of 
        or preparations by the People's Liberation Army to potentially 
        conduct aggressive military action against Taiwan.
            (3) A description of any military activity carried out 
        during the preceding quarter by the People's Republic of China 
        in the vicinity of Taiwan.
            (4) A description of engagements by Department of Defense 
        officials with the People's Liberation Army, including with 
        respect to maintaining open lines of communication, 
        establishing crisis management capabilities, and deconfliction 
        of military activities.
            (5) Any other matter the Secretary considers relevant.

SEC. 1361. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO SUPPORT ENTERTAINMENT 
              PROJECTS WITH TIES TO THE GOVERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE'S 
              REPUBLIC OF CHINA.

    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act may be 
used to knowingly provide active and direct support to any film, 
television, or other entertainment project if the Secretary of Defense 
has demonstrable evidence that the project has complied or is likely to 
comply with a demand from the Government of the People's Republic of 
China or the Chinese Communist Party, or an entity under the direction 
of the People's Republic of China or the Chinese Communist Party, to 
censor the content of the project in a material manner to advance the 
national interest of the People's Republic of China.

SEC. 1362. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR THE WUHAN INSTITUTE OF 
              VIROLOGY.

    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated under this Act may 
be made available for the Wuhan Institute of Virology for any purpose.

SEC. 1363. AUDIT TO IDENTIFY DIVERSION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FUNDING 
              TO CHINA'S RESEARCH LABS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Department of Defense Office of Inspector 
General shall conduct a study, and submit a report to Congress, 
regarding the amount of Federal funds awarded by the Department of 
Defense (whether directly or indirectly) through grants, contracts, 
subgrants, subcontracts, or any other type of agreement or 
collaboration, during the 10-year period immediately preceding such 
date of enactment, that--
            (1) was provided, whether purposely or inadvertently, to--
                    (A) the People's Republic of China;
                    (B) the Communist Party of China;
                    (C) the Wuhan Institute of Virology or any other 
                organization administered by the Chinese Academy of 
                Sciences;
                    (D) EcoHealth Alliance Inc., including any 
                subsidiaries and related organizations that are 
                directly controlled by EcoHealth Alliance, Inc.; or
                    (E) any other lab, agency, organization, 
                individual, or instrumentality that is owned, 
                controlled (directly or indirectly), or overseen 
                (officially or unofficially) by any of the entities 
                listed in subparagraphs (A) through (D); or
            (2) was used to fund research or experiments that could 
        have reasonably resulted in the enhancement of any coronavirus, 
        influenza, Nipah, Ebola, or other pathogen of pandemic 
        potential or chimeric versions of such a virus or pathogen in 
        the People's Republic of China or any other foreign country.
    (b) Identification of Countries and Pathogens.--The report required 
under subsection (a) shall specify--
            (1) the countries in which the research or experiments 
        described in subsection (a)(2) was conducted; and
            (2) the pathogens involved in such research or experiments.

SEC. 1364. PROHIBITING FEDERAL FUNDING FOR ECOHEALTH ALLIANCE INC.

    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated under this Act may 
be made available for any purpose to--
            (1) EcoHealth Alliance, Inc.;
            (2) any subsidiary of EcoHealth Alliance Inc;
            (3) any organization that is directly controlled by 
        EcoHealth Alliance Inc; or
            (4) any organization or individual that is a subgrantee or 
        subcontractor of EcoHealth Alliance Inc.

SEC. 1365. ASSESSMENT RELATING TO CONTINGENCY OPERATIONAL PLAN OF 
              UNITED STATES INDO-PACIFIC COMMAND.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct an 
assessment, based on the contingency operational plan for a major 
conflict in the area of operations of the United States Indo-Pacific 
Command, to identify and characterize the dependencies of such plan on 
specific critical infrastructure facilities, capabilities, and services 
for the successful mobilization, deployment, and sustainment of forces.
    (b) Briefings.--The Secretary shall provide to the congressional 
defense committees--
            (1) before the date on which the Secretary commences the 
        assessment required by subsection (a), a briefing that sets 
        forth the terms of reference and a plan for such assessment; 
        and
            (2) a briefing on the results of such assessment, not later 
        than the earlier of--
                    (A) the date on which Secretary completes such 
                assessment; or
                    (B) the date that is 180 days after the enactment 
                of this Act.

SEC. 1366. ASSESSMENT OF ABSORPTIVE CAPACITY OF MILITARY FORCES OF 
              TAIWAN.

    (a) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
        consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress a report on the absorptive 
        capacity of the military forces of Taiwan for military 
        capabilities provided and approved by the United States for 
        delivery to Taiwan in the last 10 years, including the date of 
        projected or achieved initial and full operational 
        capabilities.
            (2) Briefing requirement.--Not later than 30 days after the 
        delivery of the required report, the Secretary shall provide a 
        briefing on the report to the appropriate committees of 
        Congress.
            (3) Form.--The required report shall be provided in 
        classified form with an unclassified cover letter.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Absorptive capacity.--The term ``absorptive capacity'' 
        means the capacity of the recipient unit to achieve initial 
        operational capability, including to operate, maintain, 
        sustain, deploy, and employ to operational effect, a defense 
        article or service for its intended end-use.
            (2) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee 
                on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Relations, 
                and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; 
                and
                    (B) the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee 
                on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, 
                and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of 
                the House of Representatives.

SEC. 1367. ANALYSIS OF RISKS AND IMPLICATIONS OF POTENTIAL SUSTAINED 
              MILITARY BLOCKADE OF TAIWAN BY THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF 
              CHINA.

    (a) Analysis Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the 
        Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in coordination with the 
        Director of National Intelligence, shall complete a 
        comprehensive analysis of the risks and implications of a 
        sustained military blockade of Taiwan by the People's Republic 
        of China.
            (2) Elements.--The analysis required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) An assessment of the means by which the 
                People's Republic of China could execute a sustained 
                military blockade of Taiwan, including the most likely 
                courses of action through which the People's Republic 
                of China could accomplish such a blockade.
                    (B) An identification of indications and warnings 
                of a potential sustained military blockade of Taiwan by 
                the People's Republic of China, and the likely 
                timelines for such indications and warnings.
                    (C) An identification of other coercive actions the 
                People's Republic of China may potentially take before 
                or independently of such a blockade, including the 
                seizure of outlying islands of Taiwan.
                    (D) An assessment of the impact of such a blockade 
                on the ability of Taiwan to sustain its military 
                capabilities, economy, and population.
                    (E) An assessment of threats to, and other 
                potential negative impacts on, the United States 
                homeland during such a blockade scenario.
                    (F) An assessment of key military operational 
                problems presented by such a blockade.
                    (G) An assessment of the concept-required military 
                capabilities necessary to address the problems 
                identified under subparagraph (F).
                    (H) An assessment of challenges to escalation 
                management.
                    (I) An assessment of military or nonmilitary 
                options to counter or retaliate against such a blockade 
                or the seizure of outlying islands of Taiwan, including 
                through horizontal escalation.
                    (J) An assessment of the extent to which such a 
                blockade is addressed by the Joint Warfighting Concept 
                and Joint Concept for Competing.
                    (K) An identification of necessary changes to 
                United States Armed Forces force design, doctrine, and 
                tactics, techniques, and procedures for responding to 
                or mitigating the impact of such a blockade.
                    (L) An assessment of the role of United States 
                partners and allies in addressing the threats and 
                challenges posed by a such a potential blockade.
                    (M) Any other matter the Secretary of Defense 
                considers relevant.
    (b) Interagency Engagement.--Not later than 270 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall seek to 
engage with the head of any other appropriate Federal department or 
agency--
            (1) regarding the threats and challenges posed by a 
        potential sustained military blockade of Taiwan by the People's 
        Republic of China; and
            (2) to better understand potential options for a response 
        by the United States Government to such a blockade.
    (c) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a classified report--
            (1) on the assessment required by paragraph (1) of 
        subsection (a), including all elements described in paragraph 
        (2) of that subsection; and
            (2) the interagency engagements conducted under subsection 
        (b).
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, the Select Committee on Intelligence, and 
        the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, the Permanent Select Committee on 
        Intelligence, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House 
        of Representatives.

SEC. 1368. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON DEFENSE ALLIANCES AND PARTNERSHIPS IN 
              THE INDO-PACIFIC REGION.

    (a) Findings.--The Senate makes the following findings:
            (1) The 2022 National Defense Strategy states, 
        ``[m]utually-beneficial Alliances and partnerships are our 
        greatest global strategic advantage.''.
            (2) The United States Indo-Pacific Strategy states, ``we 
        will prioritize our single greatest asymmetric strength: our 
        network of security alliances and partnerships. Across the 
        region, the United States will work with allies and partners to 
        deepen our interoperability and develop and deploy advanced 
        warfighting capabilities as we support them in defending their 
        citizens and their sovereign interests.''.
            (3) Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin testified on March 
        28, 2023, that ``our allies and partners are a huge force 
        multiplier. They magnify our power, advance our shared security 
        interests, and help uphold a world that is free, open, 
        prosperous, and secure.''.
            (4) Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Milley 
        testified on March 28, 2023, that ``our alliances and 
        partnerships are key to maintaining the rules-based 
        international order and a stable and open international system 
        promoting peace and prosperity. . .We are stronger when we 
        operate closely with our allies and partners.''.
            (5) Commander of the United States Indo-Pacific Command 
        Admiral Aquilino testified on April 20, 2023, that ``a robust 
        network of allies and partners, built on the strength of our 
        shared interests, is our greatest advantage. United States 
        Indo-Pacific Command is strengthening all layers of our 
        security network: allies, multilateral arrangements, partners, 
        friends, and the Five Eyes nations. We execute security 
        cooperation activities, training, and exercises to strengthen 
        those relationships, build partner capacity, and enhance 
        interoperability.''.
    (b) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that the 
Secretary of Defense should continue efforts that strengthen United 
States defense alliances and partnerships in the Indo-Pacific region so 
as to further the comparative advantage of the United States in 
strategic competition with the People's Republic of China, including 
by--
            (1) enhancing cooperation with Japan, consistent with the 
        Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security Between the United 
        States of America and Japan, signed at Washington, January 19, 
        1960, including by developing advanced military capabilities, 
        fostering interoperability across all domains, and improving 
        sharing of information and intelligence;
            (2) reinforcing the United States alliance with the 
        Republic of Korea, including by maintaining the presence of 
        approximately 28,500 members of the United States Armed Forces 
        deployed to the country and affirming the United States 
        commitment to extended deterrence using the full range of 
        United States defense capabilities, consistent with the Mutual 
        Defense Treaty Between the United States and the Republic of 
        Korea, signed at Washington, October 1, 1953, in support of the 
        shared objective of a peaceful and stable Korean Peninsula;
            (3) fostering bilateral and multilateral cooperation with 
        Australia, consistent with the Security Treaty Between 
        Australia, New Zealand, and the United States of America, 
        signed at San Francisco, September 1, 1951, and through the 
        partnership among Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United 
        States (commonly known as ``AUKUS'')--
                    (A) to advance shared security objectives;
                    (B) to accelerate the fielding of advanced military 
                capabilities; and
                    (C) to build the capacity of emerging partners;
            (4) advancing United States alliances with the Philippines 
        and Thailand and United States partnerships with other partners 
        in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations to enhance 
        maritime domain awareness, promote sovereignty and territorial 
        integrity, leverage technology and promote innovation, and 
        support an open, inclusive, and rules-based regional 
        architecture;
            (5) broadening United States engagement with India, 
        including through the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue--
                    (A) to advance the shared objective of a free and 
                open Indo-Pacific region through bilateral and 
                multilateral engagements and participation in military 
                exercises, expanded defense trade, and collaboration on 
                humanitarian aid and disaster response; and
                    (B) to enable greater cooperation on maritime 
                security;
            (6) strengthening the United States partnership with 
        Taiwan, consistent with the Three Communiques, the Taiwan 
        Relations Act (Public Law 96-8; 22 U.S.C. 3301 et seq.), and 
        the Six Assurances, with the goal of improving Taiwan's 
        defensive capabilities and promoting peaceful cross-strait 
        relations;
            (7) reinforcing the status of the Republic of Singapore as 
        a Major Security Cooperation Partner of the United States and 
        continuing to strengthen defense and security cooperation 
        between the military forces of the Republic of Singapore and 
        the Armed Forces of the United States, including through 
        participation in combined exercises and training;
            (8) engaging with the Federated States of Micronesia, the 
        Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Republic of Palau, and 
        other Pacific Island countries with the goal of strengthening 
        regional security and addressing issues of mutual concern, 
        including protecting fisheries from illegal, unreported, and 
        unregulated fishing;
            (9) collaborating with Canada, the United Kingdom, France, 
        and other members of the European Union and the North Atlantic 
        Treaty Organization to build connectivity and advance a shared 
        vision for the region that is principled, long-term, and 
        anchored in democratic resilience; and
            (10) investing in enhanced military posture and 
        capabilities in the area of responsibility of the United States 
        Indo-Pacific Command and strengthening cooperation in bilateral 
        relationships, multilateral partnerships, and other 
        international fora to uphold global security and shared 
        principles, with the goal of ensuring the maintenance of a free 
        and open Indo-Pacific region.

SEC. 1369. ASSESSMENT OF GIFTS AND GRANTS TO UNITED STATES INSTITUTIONS 
              OF HIGHER EDUCATION FROM ENTITIES ON THE NON-SDN CHINESE 
              MILITARY-INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX COMPANIES LIST.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to 
the appropriate congressional committees an assessment of gifts and 
grants to United States institutions of higher education from entities 
on the Non-SDN Chinese Military-Industrial Complex Companies List 
maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
    (b) Elements.--The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of 
Education, shall include in the assessment required by subsection (a) 
an estimate of--
            (1) a list and description of each of the gifts and grants 
        provided to United States institutions of higher education by 
        entities described in subsection (a); and
            (2) the monetary value of each of those gifts and grants.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the Committee on 
        Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
        Representatives.
            (2) Gifts and grants.--The term ``gifts and grants'' 
        includes financial contributions, material donations, provision 
        of services, scholarships, fellowships, research funding, 
        infrastructure investment, contracts, or any other form of 
        support that provides a benefit to the recipient institution.

SEC. 1370. EXTENSION OF EXPORT PROHIBITION ON MUNITIONS ITEMS TO THE 
              HONG KONG POLICE FORCE.

    Section 3 of the Act entitled ``An Act to prohibit the commercial 
export of covered munitions items to the Hong Kong Police Force'', 
approved November 27, 2019 (Public Law 116-77; 133 Stat. 1173), is 
amended by striking ``shall expire on December 31, 2024'' and inserting 
``shall expire on the date on which the President certifies to the 
appropriate congressional committees that--
            ``(1) the Secretary of State has, on or after the date of 
        the enactment of this paragraph, certified under section 205 of 
        the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992 (22 U.S.C. 5701 
        et seq.) that Hong Kong warrants treatment under United States 
        law in the same manner as United States laws were applied to 
        Hong Kong before July 1, 1997;
            ``(2) the Hong Kong Police have not engaged in gross 
        violations of human rights during the 1-year period ending on 
        the date of such certification; and
            ``(3) there has been an independent examination of human 
        rights concerns related to the crowd control tactics of the 
        Hong Kong Police and the Government of the Hong Kong Special 
        Administrative Region has adequately addressed those 
        concerns.''.

             Subtitle E--Securing Maritime Data From China

SEC. 1371. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Securing Maritime Data from 
China Act of 2023''.

SEC. 1372. LOGINK DEFINED.

    In this subtitle, the term ``LOGINK'' means the public, open, 
shared logistics information network known as the National Public 
Information Platform for Transportation and Logistics by the Ministry 
of Transport of the People's Republic of China.

SEC. 1373. COUNTERING THE SPREAD OF LOGINK.

    (a) Contracting Prohibition.--The Department of Defense may not 
enter into or renew any contract with any entity that uses--
            (1) LOGINK;
            (2) any logistics platform controlled by, affiliated with, 
        or subject to the jurisdiction of the Chinese Communist Party 
        or the Government of the People's Republic of China; or
            (3) any logistics platform that shares data with a system 
        described in paragraph (1) or (2).
    (b) Applicability.--Subsection (a) applies with respect to any 
contract entered into or renewed on or after the date that is 2 years 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.

                          Subtitle F--Reports

SEC. 1381. REPORT ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
              IN SUPPORT OF NATIONAL STRATEGY FOR THE ARCTIC REGION.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on Department of Defense roles and responsibilities 
in support of the National Strategy for the Arctic Region that 
includes--
            (1) an identification of the Department's lines of effort 
        to support the implementation of the National Strategy for the 
        Arctic Region, including the implementation plan for each 
        applicable military department;
            (2) a plan for the execution of, and a projected timeline 
        and the resource requirements for, each such line of effort; 
        and
            (3) any other matter the Secretary considers relevant.

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

SEC. 1391. MILITARY INTELLIGENCE COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS PARTNERSHIPS.

    (a) Use of Funds Other Than Appropriated Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the Director of 
        the Defense Intelligence Agency, in coordination with the 
        Secretary of State and the Director of National Intelligence, 
        may accept and expend foreign partner funds in order for the 
        foreign partner or partners to share with the Defense 
        Intelligence Agency the expenses of joint and combined military 
        intelligence collection and analysis activities.
            (2) Limitations.--
                    (A) Previously denied funds.--Funds accepted under 
                this section may not be expended, in whole or in part, 
                by or for the benefit of the Defense Intelligence 
                Agency for any purpose for which Congress has 
                previously denied funds.
                    (B) Joint benefit.--The authority provided by 
                paragraph (1) may not be used to acquire items or 
                services for the sole benefit of the United States.
    (b) Annual Report.--Not later than March 1, 2025, and annually 
thereafter for four years, the Director of the Defense Intelligence 
Agency shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report 
on any funds accepted or expended under this section during the 
preceding calendar year, including an identification of the foreign 
partner or partners involved and a description of the purpose of such 
funds.
    (c) Termination.--The authority to accept and expend foreign 
partner funds pursuant to this section shall terminate on December 31, 
2028.
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 1392. COLLABORATION WITH PARTNER COUNTRIES TO DEVELOP AND MAINTAIN 
              MILITARY-WIDE TRANSFORMATIONAL STRATEGIES FOR OPERATIONAL 
              ENERGY.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than January 1, 2025, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall establish a partnership program 
        using existing authorities to collaborate with the military 
        forces of partner countries in developing and maintaining 
        military-wide transformational strategies for operational 
        energy (in this section referred to as the ``Program'').
            (2) Organization.--The Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
        Energy, Installations, and Environment, in coordination with 
        the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy and in consultation 
        with the Secretaries of the military departments, the 
        commanders of the combatant commands, and any other individual 
        the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate, shall be 
        responsible for, and shall oversee, the Program.
    (b) Objective.--The objective of the Program is to promote the 
readiness of the United States Armed Forces and the military forces of 
partner countries for missions in contested logistics environments by 
focusing on demand reduction and employing more diverse and renewable 
operational energy sources so as to enhance energy security, energy 
resilience, and energy conservation, reduce logistical vulnerabilities, 
and ensure that supply lines are resilient to extreme weather, 
disruptions to energy supplies, and direct or indirect cyber attacks.
    (c) Activities.--
            (1) In general.--Under the Program, the United States Armed 
        Forces and the military forces of each participating partner 
        country shall, in coordination--
                    (A) establish policies to improve warfighting 
                capability through energy security and energy 
                resilience;
                    (B) integrate efforts to mitigate mutual contested 
                logistics challenges through the reduction of 
                operational energy demand;
                    (C) identify and mitigate operational energy 
                challenges presented by any contested logistics 
                environment, including through developing innovative 
                delivery systems, distributed storage, flexible 
                contracting, and improved automation;
                    (D) assess and integrate, to the extent 
                practicable, any technology, including electric, 
                hydrogen, nuclear, biofuels, and any other sustainable 
                fuel technology or renewable energy technology, that 
                may reduce operational energy demand in the near term 
                or long term;
                    (E) assess and consider any infrastructure 
                investment of allied and partner countries that may 
                affect operational energy availability in the event of 
                a conflict with a near-peer adversary; and
                    (F) assess and integrate, to the extent 
                practicable--
                            (i) any technology that increases 
                        sustainability; and
                            (ii) any practice, technology, or strategy 
                        that reduces negative impacts on human health.
            (2) Country considerations.--In carrying out any activity 
        under paragraph (1), to the extent practicable, the relevant 
        existing and past military conflicts and cultural practices of, 
        and beliefs prevalent in, the participating country shall be 
        taken into account.
    (d) Strategy.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than September 30, 2024, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
        Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
        strategy for the implementation of the Program.
            (2) Elements.--The strategy required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A governance structure for the Program, 
                including--
                            (i) the officials tasked to oversee the 
                        Program;
                            (ii) the format of the governing body of 
                        the Program;
                            (iii) the functions and duties of such 
                        governing body with respect to establishing and 
                        maintaining the Program; and
                            (iv) mechanisms for coordinating with 
                        partner countries selected to participate in 
                        the Program.
                    (B) With respect to the selection of partner 
                countries initially selected to participate in the 
                Program--
                            (i) an identification of each such country;
                            (ii) the rationale for selecting each such 
                        country, including a description of--
                                    (I) the benefits to the military 
                                forces of the partner country; and
                                    (II) the benefits to the United 
                                States Armed Forces of participation by 
                                such country;
                            (iii) a description of any limitation on 
                        the participation of a selected partner 
                        country; and
                            (iv) any other information the Secretary 
                        considers appropriate.
                    (C) A list of additional authorities, 
                appropriations, or other congressional support 
                necessary to ensure the success of the Program.
                    (D) A campaign of objectives for the first three 
                fiscal years of the Program, including--
                            (i) a description of, and a rationale for 
                        selecting, such objectives;
                            (ii) an identification of milestones toward 
                        achieving such objectives; and
                            (iii) metrics for evaluating success in 
                        achieving such objectives.
                    (E) A description of opportunities and potential 
                timelines for future Program expansion, as appropriate.
                    (F) Any other information the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.
            (3) Form.--The strategy required by paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified 
        annex.
    (e) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than September 20, 2025, and 
        annually thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
        the congressional defense committees a report on the Program.
            (2) Elements.--Each report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A narrative summary of activities conducted as 
                part of the Program during the preceding fiscal year.
                    (B) Except in the case of the initial report, an 
                assessment of progress toward the objectives 
                established for the preceding fiscal year described in 
                the preceding report under this subsection using the 
                metrics established in such report.
                    (C) A campaign of objectives for the three fiscal 
                years following the date of submission of the report, 
                including--
                            (i) a description of, and a rationale for 
                        selecting, such objectives;
                            (ii) an identification of milestones toward 
                        achieving such objectives; and
                            (iii) metrics for evaluating success in 
                        achieving such objectives.
                    (D) A description of opportunities and potential 
                timelines for future Program expansion, as appropriate.
                    (E) Any other information the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.
            (3) Form.-- Each report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified 
        annex.
    (f) Termination.--The Program shall terminate on December 31, 2029.
    (g) Contested Logistics Environment Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``contested logistics environment'' means an environment in which 
the United States Armed Forces or the military forces of a partner 
country engage in conflict with an adversary that presents challenges 
in all domains and directly targets logistics operations, facilities, 
and activities in the United States, abroad, or in transit from one 
location to the other.

SEC. 1393. MODIFICATION OF SUPPORT OF SPECIAL OPERATIONS FOR IRREGULAR 
              WARFARE.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 3 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 127c the following:
``Sec. 127d. Support of special operations for irregular warfare
    ``(a) Authority.--The Secretary of Defense may, with the 
concurrence of the relevant Chief of Mission, expend up to $20,000,000 
during any fiscal year to provide support to foreign forces, irregular 
forces, groups, or individuals engaged in supporting or facilitating 
ongoing and authorized irregular warfare operations by United States 
Special Operations Forces.
    ``(b) Funds.--Funds for support under this section in a fiscal year 
shall be derived from amounts authorized to be appropriated for that 
fiscal year for the Department of Defense for operation and 
maintenance.
    ``(c) Procedures.--
            ``(1) In general.--The authority in this section shall be 
        exercised in accordance with such procedures as the Secretary 
        shall establish for purposes of this section.
            ``(2) Elements.--The procedures required under paragraph 
        (1) shall establish, at a minimum, the following:
                    ``(A) Policy guidance for the execution of, and 
                constraints within, activities under the authority in 
                this section.
                    ``(B) The processes through which activities under 
                the authority in this section are to be developed, 
                validated, and coordinated, as appropriate, with 
                relevant entities of the United States Government.
                    ``(C) The processes through which legal reviews and 
                determinations are made to comply with the authority in 
                this section and ensure that the exercise of such 
                authority is consistent with the national security of 
                the United States.
                    ``(D) The processes to ensure, to the extent 
                practicable, that before a decision to provide support 
                is made, the recipients of support do not pose a 
                counterintelligence or force protection threat and have 
                not engaged in gross violations of human rights.
                    ``(E) The processes by which the Department shall 
                keep the congressional defense committees fully and 
                currently informed of--
                            ``(i) the requirements for the use of the 
                        authority in this section; and
                            ``(ii) activities conducted under such 
                        authority.
            ``(3) Notice to congress on procedures and material 
        modifications.--The Secretary shall notify the congressional 
        defense committees of the procedures established pursuant to 
        this section before any exercise of the authority in this 
        section, and shall notify such committee of any material 
        modification of the procedures.
    ``(d) Construction of Authority.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to constitute a specific statutory authorization for any of 
the following:
            ``(1) The conduct of a covert action, as such term is 
        defined in section 503(e) of the National Security Act of 1947 
        (50 U.S.C. 3093(e)).
            ``(2) The introduction of United States Armed Forces 
        (including as such term is defined in section 8(c) of the War 
        Powers Resolution ( 50 U.S.C. 1547(c))) into hostilities or 
        into situations wherein hostilities are clearly indicated by 
        the circumstances.
            ``(3) The provision of support to regular forces, irregular 
        forces, groups, or individuals for the conduct of operations 
        that United States Special Operations Forces are not otherwise 
        legally authorized to conduct themselves.
            ``(4) The conduct or support of activities, directly or 
        indirectly, that are inconsistent with the laws of armed 
        conflict.
    ``(e) Limitation on Delegation.--The authority of the Secretary to 
make funds available under this section for support of a military 
operation may not be delegated.
    ``(f) Programmatic and Policy Oversight.--The Assistant Secretary 
of Defense for Special Operations and Low-Intensity Conflict shall have 
primary programmatic and policy oversight within the Office of the 
Secretary of Defense of support to irregular warfare activities 
authorized by this section.
    ``(g) Notification.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 15 days before exercising 
        the authority in this section to make funds available to 
        initiate support of an ongoing and authorized operation or 
        changing the scope or funding level of any support under this 
        section for such an operation by $500,000 or an amount equal to 
        10 percent of such funding level (whichever is less), the 
        Secretary shall notify the congressional defense committees of 
        the use of such authority with respect to such operation. Any 
        such notification shall be in writing.
            ``(2) Elements.--A notification required by this subsection 
        shall include the following:
                    ``(A) The type of support to be provided to United 
                States Special Operations Forces, and a description of 
                the ongoing and authorized operation to be supported.
                    ``(B) A description of the foreign forces, 
                irregular forces, groups, or individuals engaged in 
                supporting or facilitating the ongoing and authorized 
                operation that is to be the recipient of funds.
                    ``(C) The type of support to be provided to the 
                recipient of the funds, and a description of the end-
                use monitoring to be used in connection with the use of 
                the funds.
                    ``(D) The amount obligated under the authority to 
                provide support.
                    ``(E) The duration for which the support is 
                expected to be provided, and an identification of the 
                timeframe in which the provision of support will be 
                reviewed by the commander of the applicable combatant 
                command for a determination with respect to the 
                necessity of continuing such support.
                    ``(F) The determination of the Secretary that the 
                provision of support does not constitute any of the 
                following:
                            ``(i) An introduction of United States 
                        Armed Forces (including as such term is defined 
                        in section 8(c) of the War Powers Resolution 
                        (50 U.S.C. 1547(c))) into hostilities, or into 
                        situations where hostilities are clearly 
                        indicated by the circumstances, without 
                        specific statutory authorization within the 
                        meaning of section 5(b) of such Resolution (50 
                        U.S.C. 1544(b)).
                            ``(ii) A covert action, as such term is 
                        defined in section 503(e) of the National 
                        Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3093(e)).
                            ``(iii) An authorization for the provision 
                        of support to regular forces, irregular forces, 
                        groups, or individuals for the conduct of 
                        operations that United States Special 
                        Operations Forces are not otherwise legally 
                        authorized to conduct themselves.
                            ``(iv) The conduct or support of 
                        activities, directly or indirectly, that are 
                        inconsistent with the laws of armed conflict.
    ``(h) Notification of Suspension or Termination of Support.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 48 hours after suspending 
        or terminating support to any foreign force, irregular force, 
        group, or individual provided pursuant to the authority in this 
        section, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
        defense committees a written notice of such suspension or 
        termination.
            ``(2) Elements.--The written notice required by paragraph 
        (1) shall include each of the following:
                    ``(A) A description of the reasons for the 
                suspension or termination of such support.
                    ``(B) A description of any effect on regional, 
                theater, or global campaign plan objectives anticipated 
                to result from such suspension or termination.
                    ``(C) A plan for such suspension or termination, 
                and, in the case of support that is planned to be 
                transitioned to any other program of the Department of 
                Defense or to a program of any other Federal department 
                or agency, a detailed description of the transition 
                plan, including the resources, equipment, capabilities, 
                and personnel associated with such plan.
    ``(i) Biannual Reports.--
            ``(1) Report on preceding fiscal year.--Not later than 120 
        days after the close of each fiscal year in which subsection 
        (a) is in effect, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report on the support 
        provided under this section during the preceding fiscal year.
            ``(2) Report on current calendar year.-- Not later than 180 
        days after the submittal of each report required by paragraph 
        (1), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a report on the support provided under this section 
        during the first half of the fiscal year in which the report 
        under this paragraph is submitted.
            ``(3) Elements.--Each report required by this subsection 
        shall include the following:
                    ``(A) A summary of the ongoing irregular warfare 
                operations, and associated authorized campaign plans, 
                being conducted by United States Special Operations 
                Forces that were supported or facilitated by foreign 
                forces, irregular forces, groups, or individuals for 
                which support was provided under this section during 
                the period covered by such report.
                    ``(B) A description of the support or facilitation 
                provided by such foreign forces, irregular forces, 
                groups, or individuals to United States Special 
                Operations Forces during such period.
                    ``(C) The type of recipients that were provided 
                support under this section during such period, 
                identified by authorized category (foreign forces, 
                irregular forces, groups, or individuals).
                    ``(D) A detailed description of the support 
                provided to the recipients under this section during 
                such period.
                    ``(E) The total amount obligated for support under 
                this section during such period, including budget 
                details.
                    ``(F) The intended duration of support provided 
                under this section during such period.
                    ``(G) An assessment of value of the support 
                provided under this section during such period, 
                including a summary of significant activities 
                undertaken by foreign forces, irregular forces, groups, 
                or individuals to support irregular warfare operations 
                by United States Special Operations Forces.
                    ``(H) The total amount obligated for support under 
                this section in prior fiscal years.
    ``(j) Quarterly Briefings.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not less frequently than quarterly, the 
        Secretary shall provide to the congressional defense committees 
        a briefing on the use of the authority provided by this 
        section, and other matters relating to irregular warfare, with 
        the primary purposes of--
                    ``(A) keeping the congressional defense committees 
                fully and currently informed of irregular warfare 
                requirements and activities, including emerging 
                combatant commands requirements; and
                    ``(B) consulting with the congressional defense 
                committees regarding such matters.
            ``(2) Elements.--Each briefing required by paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    ``(A) An update on irregular warfare activities 
                within each geographic combatant command and a 
                description of the manner in which such activities 
                support the respective theater campaign plan and the 
                National Defense Strategy.
                    ``(B) An overview of relevant authorities and legal 
                issues, including limitations.
                    ``(C) An overview of irregular warfare-related 
                interagency activities and initiatives.
                    ``(D) A description of emerging combatant command 
                requirements for the use of the authority provided by 
                this section.
    ``(k) Irregular Warfare Defined.--Subject to subsection (f), in 
this section, the term `irregular warfare' means Department of Defense 
activities not involving armed conflict that support predetermined 
United States policy and military objectives conducted by, with, and 
through regular forces, irregular forces, groups, and individuals.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
127c the following new item:

``127d. Support of special operations for irregular warfare.''.
    (c) Repeal.--Section 1202 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2018 is repealed.

SEC. 1394. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR 
              CLANDESTINE ACTIVITIES THAT SUPPORT OPERATIONAL 
              PREPARATION OF THE ENVIRONMENT.

    Section 127f of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (c), (d), (e), and (f) as 
        subsections (d), (e), (g), and (h), respectively;
            (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection (c):
    ``(c) Procedures.--
            ``(1) In general.--The authority in this section shall be 
        exercised in accordance with such procedures as the Secretary 
        shall establish for purposes of this section.
            ``(2) Elements.--The procedures required under paragraph 
        (1) shall establish, at a minimum, each of the following:
                    ``(A) Policy, strategy, or other guidance for the 
                execution of, and constraints within, activities 
                conducted under this section.
                    ``(B) The processes through which activities 
                conducted under this section are to be developed, 
                validated, and coordinated, as appropriate, with 
                relevant entities of the United States Government.
                    ``(C) The processes through which legal reviews and 
                determinations are made to comply with the authority in 
                this section and ensure that the exercise of such 
                authority is consistent with the national security 
                interests of the United States.
                    ``(D) The processes by which the Department of 
                Defense shall keep the congressional defense committees 
                fully and currently informed of--
                            ``(i) the requirements for the use of the 
                        authority in this section; and
                            ``(ii) activities conducted under such 
                        authority.
            ``(3) Notice to congress.--The Secretary shall notify the 
        congressional defense committees of any material modification 
        to the procedures established under paragraph (1).'';
            (3) by inserting after subsection (e), as redesignated, the 
        following new subsection (f):
    ``(f) Notification.--Not later than 15 days before exercising the 
authority in this section to make funds available to initiate a new 
operational preparation of the environment activity or changing the 
scope or funding level of any support for such an operation by 
$1,000,000 or an amount equal to 20 percent of such funding level 
(whichever is less), or not later than 48 hours after exercising such 
authority if the Secretary determines that extraordinary circumstances 
that impact the national security of the United States exist, the 
Secretary shall notify the congressional defense committees of the use 
of such authority with respect to that activity. Any such notification 
shall be in writing.''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(i) Oversight by Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special 
Operations and Low Intensity Conflict.--The Assistant Secretary of 
Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict shall have 
primary responsibility within the Office of the Secretary of Defense 
for oversight of policies and programs authorized by this section.
    ``(j) Construction of Authority.--Nothing in this section may be 
construed to constitute authority to conduct, or provide statutory 
authorization for, any of the following:
            ``(1) Execution of operational activities.
            ``(2) A covert action, as such term is defined in section 
        503(e) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
        3093(e)).
            ``(3) An introduction of the armed forces, (including the 
        introduction of United States Armed Forces as such term is 
        defined in section 8(c) of the War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 
        1547(c))), into hostilities, or into situations where 
        hostilities are clearly indicated by the circumstances, without 
        specific statutory authorization within the meaning of section 
        5(b) of such Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1544(b)).
            ``(4) Activities or support for activities, directly or 
        indirectly, that are inconsistent with the laws of armed 
        conflict.
    ``(k) Operational Preparation of the Environment Defined.--In this 
section, the term `operational preparation of the environment' means 
the conduct of activities in likely or potential operational areas to 
set conditions for mission execution.''.

SEC. 1395. MODIFICATION OF INITIATIVE TO SUPPORT PROTECTION OF NATIONAL 
              SECURITY ACADEMIC RESEARCHERS FROM UNDUE INFLUENCE AND 
              OTHER SECURITY THREATS.

    Section 1286 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (10 U.S.C. 4001 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (7) through (9) as 
                paragraphs (8) through (10), respectively;
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following 
                new paragraph (7):
            ``(7) Policies to limit or prohibit funding provided by the 
        Department of Defense for institutions or individual 
        researchers who knowingly contract or make other financial 
        arrangements with entities identified in the list described in 
        paragraph (9), which policies shall include--
                    ``(A) use of such list as part of a risk assessment 
                decision matrix during proposal evaluations, including 
                the development of a question for proposers or broad 
                area announcements that require proposers to disclose 
                any contractual or financial connections with such 
                entities;
                    ``(B) a requirement that the Department shall 
                notify a proposer of suspected noncompliance with a 
                policy issued under this paragraph and provide not less 
                than 30 days to take actions to remedy such 
                noncompliance;
                    ``(C) the establishment of an appeals procedure 
                under which a proposer may appeal a negative decision 
                on a proposal if the decision is based on a 
                determination informed by such list; and
                    ``(D) a requirement that each awardee of funding 
                provided by the Department shall disclose to the 
                Department any contract or financial arrangement made 
                with such an entity during the period of the award.''; 
                and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(11) Development of measures of effectiveness and 
        performance to assess and track progress of the Department of 
        Defense across the initiative, which measures shall include--
                    ``(A) the evaluation of currently available data to 
                support the assessment of such measures, including the 
                identification of areas in which gaps exist that may 
                require collection of completely new data, or 
                modifications to existing data sets;
                    ``(B) current means and methods for the collection 
                of data in an automated manner, including the 
                identification of areas in which gaps exist that may 
                require new means for data collection or visualization 
                of such data; and
                    ``(C) the development of an analysis and assessment 
                methodology framework to make tradeoffs between the 
                measures developed under this paragraph and other 
                metrics related to assessing undue foreign influence on 
                the Department of Defense research enterprise, such as 
                commercial due diligence, beneficial ownership, and 
                foreign ownership, control, and influence.''; and
            (2) in subsection (e)(2), by adding at the end the 
        following new subparagraph:
                    ``(G) A description of the status of the measures 
                of effectiveness and performance described in 
                subsection (c)(11) for the period covered by such 
                report, including an analytical assessment of the 
                impact of such measures on the goals of the 
                initiative.''.

SEC. 1396. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN PAYMENTS TO REDRESS 
              INJURY AND LOSS.

    Section 1213(h) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2020 (10 U.S.C. 2731 note) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by redesignating subparagraphs (A) 
        through (D) as clauses (i) through (iv), and moving such 
        clauses, as redesignated, two ems to the right;
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (1) as subparagraph (A) and 
        moving such subparagraph, as redesignated, two ems to the 
        right;
            (3) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
                    ``(B) A description of any denied or refused ex 
                gratia payment or request, including--
                            ``(i) the date on which any such request 
                        was made;
                            ``(ii) the steps the Department of Defense 
                        has taken to respond to the request;
                            ``(iii) in the case of a refused payment, 
                        the reason for such refusal, if known; and
                            ``(iv) any other reason for which a payment 
                        was not offered or made.'';
            (4) by redesignating paragraph (3) as subparagraph (C) and 
        moving such subparagraph, as redesignated, two ems to the 
        right;
            (5) by striking ``Not later than'' and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than''; and
            (6) by adding at the end the following new paragraph (2):
            ``(2) Public availability.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than 15 days after the 
                date on which the Secretary of Defense submits each 
                report required by paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
                make the report available to the public in an 
                electronic format.
                    ``(B) Privacy.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
                exclude from each report made available to the public 
                under subparagraph (A)--
                            ``(i) confidential or personally 
                        identifiable information pertaining to specific 
                        payment recipients so as to ensure the safety 
                        and privacy of such recipients; and
                            ``(ii) any confidential or classified 
                        information that would undermine Department of 
                        Defense operational security.''.

SEC. 1397. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR COOPERATION ON DIRECTED ENERGY 
              CAPABILITIES.

    (a) Program Authorization.--Section 1280 of the William M. (Mac) 
Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 
(Public Law 116-283; 134 Stat. 3982; 22 U.S.C. 8606 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (d), in the first sentence--
                    (A) by inserting ``acting through the Under 
                Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering,'' 
                after ``the Secretary of Defense,''; and
                    (B) by striking ``may establish a program'' and 
                inserting ``is authorized''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Notification.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense 
        for Research and Engineering shall submit to the appropriate 
        committees of Congress an assessment detailing--
                    ``(A) the most promising directed energy missile 
                defense technologies available for co-development with 
                the Government of Israel;
                    ``(B) any risks relating to the implementation of a 
                directed energy missile defense technology co-
                development program with the Government of Israel;
                    ``(C) an anticipated spending plan for fiscal year 
                2024 funding authorized by the National Defense 
                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 to carry out 
                this section; and
                    ``(D) initial projections for likely funding 
                requirements to carry out a directed energy missile 
                defense technology co-development program with the 
                Government of Israel over the five fiscal years 
                beginning after the date of the enactment of that Act, 
                as applicable.
            ``(2) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term `appropriate committees of Congress' 
        means--
                    ``(A) the Committee on Armed Services, the 
                Committee on Appropriations, and the Committee on 
                Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
                    ``(B) the Committee on Armed Services, the 
                Committee on Appropriations, and the Committee on 
                Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.''.
    (b) Additional Funding.--The amount authorized to be appropriated 
for fiscal year 2024 by section 4201 for research, development, test, 
and evaluation for Advanced Component Development and Prototypes is 
hereby increased by $25,000,000, with the amount of the increase to be 
available for Israeli Cooperative Programs (PE 0603913C).
    (c) Offset.--The amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
year 2024 by section 4201 for research, development, test, and 
evaluation for the Air Force is hereby decreased by $25,000,000, with 
the amount of the decrease to be taken from the amounts available for 
VC-25B (PE 0401319F).

SEC. 1398. MODIFICATION OF ARCTIC SECURITY INITIATIVE.

    Section 1090(b)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117-81; 135 Stat. 1927) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``the Secretary may'' 
        and inserting ``the Secretary shall''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B)(i), by striking ``If the Initiative 
        is established'' and inserting ``On the establishment of the 
        Initiative''.

SEC. 1399. TERMINATION OF AUTHORIZATION OF NON-CONVENTIONAL ASSISTED 
              RECOVERY CAPABILITIES.

    Section 943(g) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4578) is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(g) Termination.--The authority under this section shall 
terminate on December 31, 2023.''.

SEC. 1399A. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON IN-FLIGHT REFUELING TO NON-
              UNITED STATES AIRCRAFT THAT ENGAGE IN HOSTILITIES IN THE 
              ONGOING CIVIL WAR IN YEMEN.

    Section 1273 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92; 133 Stat. 1699) is amended to read as 
follows:

``SEC. 1273. PROHIBITION ON IN-FLIGHT REFUELING TO NON-UNITED STATES 
              AIRCRAFT THAT ENGAGE IN HOSTILITIES IN THE ONGOING CIVIL 
              WAR IN YEMEN.

            ``For the one-year period beginning on the date of the 
        enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2024, the Department of Defense may not provide in-flight 
        refueling pursuant to section 2342 of title 10, United States 
        Code, or any other applicable statutory authority, to non-
        United States aircraft that engage in hostilities in the 
        ongoing civil war in Yemen unless and until a declaration of 
        war or a specific statutory authorization for such use of the 
        United States Armed Forces has been enacted.''.

SEC. 1399B. EXTENSION OF UNITED STATES-ISRAEL ANTI-TUNNEL COOPERATION.

    Section 1279(f) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2016 (22 U.S.C. 8606 note) is amended by striking 
``December 31, 2024'' and inserting ``December 31, 2026''.

SEC. 1399C. PROHIBITION ON DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE FOREIGN 
              PARTNER FORCES AS ELIGIBLE FOR THE PROVISION OF 
              COLLECTIVE SELF-DEFENSE SUPPORT BY UNITED STATES ARMED 
              FORCES.

    (a) In General.--The authority to designate foreign partner forces 
as eligible for the provision of collective self-defense support by the 
United States Armed Forces may not be delegated below the Secretary of 
Defense.
    (b) Review.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall review existing designations of 
foreign partner forces as eligible for the provision of collective 
self-defense support by the United States Armed Forces and provide the 
congressional defense committees with a certification with respect to 
whether each such designation remains valid.
    (c) Waiver.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may waive the prohibition 
        under subsection (a) if the Secretary determines that there are 
        compelling circumstances that necessitate the waiver of such 
        prohibition.
            (2) Notice.--Not later than 48 hours after the Secretary 
        exercises the waiver authority under paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
        a notice of the waiver, which shall include--
                    (A) a description of the compelling circumstances 
                that necessitated the wavier;
                    (B) a description of the United States national 
                security interests served by the waiver;
                    (C) an identification of any named operation 
                related to the waiver; and
                    (D) an articulation of any temporal, geographic, or 
                other limitations on the waiver.
    (d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed as invalidating a designation of foreign partner forces as 
eligible for the provision of collective self-defense support by the 
United States Armed Forces that is in effect as of the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (e) Collective Self-defense Defined.--In this section, the term 
``collective self-defense'' means the use of United States military 
force to defend designated foreign partner forces, their facilities, 
and their property.

SEC. 1399D. PARTICIPATION BY MILITARY DEPARTMENTS IN INTEROPERABILITY 
              PROGRAMS WITH MILITARY FORCES OF AUSTRALIA, CANADA, NEW 
              ZEALAND, AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.

    (a) In General.--Section 1274 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (10 U.S.C. 2350a note) is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``administration of 
        the american, british, canadian, and australian armies' 
        program'' and inserting ``participation by military departments 
        in interoperability programs with military forces of australia, 
        canada, new zealand, and the united kingdom''; and
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by inserting ``a military department of'' after 
                ``the participation by''; and
                    (B) by striking ``the land-force program known as 
                the American, British, Canadian, and Australian Armies' 
                Program'' and inserting ``an interoperability program 
                with the military forces of one or more participating 
                countries specified in subsection (b)''.
    (b) Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) The table of contents of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 
        Stat. 1632) is amended by striking the item relating to section 
        1274 and inserting the following:

``Sec. 1274. Participation by military departments in interoperability 
                            programs with military forces of Australia, 
                            Canada, New Zealand, and the United 
                            Kingdom.''.
            (2) The table of contents for title XII of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-
        239; 126 Stat. 1977) is amended by striking the item relating 
        to section 1274 and inserting the following:

``Sec. 1274. Participation by military departments in interoperability 
                            programs with military forces of Australia, 
                            Canada, New Zealand, and the United 
                            Kingdom.''.

SEC. 1399E. COOPERATION WITH ALLIES AND PARTNERS IN MIDDLE EAST ON 
              DEVELOPMENT OF INTEGRATED REGIONAL CYBERSECURITY 
              ARCHITECTURE.

    (a) Cooperation.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, using existing 
        authorities and in consultation with the head of any other 
        Federal agency, as appropriate, shall seek to cooperate with 
        allies and partners in the Middle East with respect to 
        developing an integrated regional cybersecurity architecture 
        and deepening military cybersecurity partnerships to defend 
        military networks, infrastructure, and systems against hostile 
        cyber activity.
            (2) Protection of sensitive information.--Any activity 
        carried out under paragraph (1)shall be conducted in a manner 
        that--
                    (A) is consistent with the protection of 
                intelligence sources and methods; and
                    (B) appropriately protects sensitive information 
                and the national security interests of the United 
                States.
    (b) Strategy.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
        consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress a strategy for cooperation 
        with allies and partners in the Middle East to develop an 
        integrated regional cybersecurity architecture to defend 
        military networks, infrastructure, and systems against hostile 
        cyber activity.
            (2) Elements.--The strategy submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) An assessment of the threat landscape of 
                cyberattacks, military networks, infrastructure, and 
                systems against allies and partners within the Middle 
                East.
                    (B) A description of current efforts to share, 
                between the United States and allies and partners 
                within the Middle East, indicators and warnings, 
                tactics, techniques, procedures, threat signatures, 
                planning efforts, training, and other similar 
                information about cyber threats.
                    (C) An analysis of current bilateral and 
                multilateral defense protocols protecting military 
                networks, infrastructure, and systems and sharing 
                sensitive cyber threat information between the United 
                States and allies and partners in the Middle East.
                    (D) An assessment of whether a multinational 
                integrated military cybersecurity partnership, 
                including establishing a center in the Middle East to 
                facilitate such activities, would improve collective 
                security in the Middle East.
                    (E) An assessment of gaps in ally and partner 
                capabilities that would have to be remedied in order to 
                establish such a center.
                    (F) A description of any prior or ongoing effort to 
                engage allies and partners in the Middle East in 
                establishing--
                            (i) a multinational integrated 
                        cybersecurity partnership or other bilateral or 
                        multilateral defensive cybersecurity 
                        information sharing and training partnership; 
                        or
                            (ii) other cooperative defensive 
                        cybersecurity measures.
                    (G) An identification of elements of a potential 
                multinational military cybersecurity partnership, or 
                other bilateral or multilateral defensive cybersecurity 
                measures, that--
                            (i) can be acquired and operated by 
                        specified foreign partners within the area of 
                        responsibility of the United States Central 
                        Command;
                            (ii) can only be provided and operated by 
                        the United States; and
                            (iii) can be provided by a third party 
                        entity contracted by the United States Central 
                        Command jointly with specified foreign 
                        partners.
                    (H) Any other matter the Secretary of Defense 
                considers relevant.
            (3) Form.--The strategy required by paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified 
        annex.
    (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the 
        Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the 
        Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
        Representatives.

SEC. 1399F. FOREIGN ADVANCE ACQUISITION ACCOUNT.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Defense may establish, within 
the Special Defense Acquisition Fund established pursuant to chapter 5 
of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2795 et seq.), an account, to 
be known as the ``Foreign Advance Acquisition Account'' (in this 
section referred to as the ``Account''), that shall be maintained 
separately from other accounts and used to accelerate the production of 
United States-produced end items in reasonable anticipation of the sale 
of such end items through the foreign military sales or direct 
commercial sales processes.
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts in the Account shall be made available 
to the Secretary of Defense for the following purposes:
            (1) To finance the acquisition, using the procedures of the 
        Special Defense Acquisition Fund, of defense articles and 
        services in advance of the transfer of such articles and 
        services to covered countries through the foreign military 
        sales process.
            (2) To provide a mechanism for covered countries to 
        contribute funds, including before the completion of a letter 
        of offer under the procedures of the Arms Export Control Act 
        (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.), for the acquisition of such defense 
        articles and services.
            (3) To pay for storage, maintenance, and other costs 
        related to the storage, preservation, and preparation for 
        transfer of defense articles and services acquired using 
        amounts in the Account prior to their transfer, and to pay for 
        the administrative costs of the Department of Defense incurred 
        in the acquisition of such items to the extent not reimbursed 
        pursuant to section 43(b) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 
        U.S.C. 2792(b)).
    (c) Contributions From Covered Countries.--The Secretary of Defense 
may accept contributions of amounts to the Account from any foreign 
person, entity, or government of a covered country.
    (d) Limitations.--
            (1) Applicability of other law.--Defense articles and 
        services acquired by the Secretary of Defense using amounts in 
        the Account may not be transferred to any foreign country 
        unless such transfer is authorized by the Arms Export Control 
        Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.), the Foreign Assistance Act of 
        1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.), or other applicable law.
            (2) Previously denied funds.--Amounts in the Account may 
        not be expended, in whole or in part, by or for the benefit of 
        the Department of Defense for a purpose for which Congress has 
        previously denied funds.
            (3) Additional limitation.--Amounts in the Account may not 
        be used to acquire items or services for the sole benefit of 
        the United States.
    (e) Annual Report.--Not later than 60 days after the date on which 
each fiscal year ends, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report on the use of the Account 
that includes, for such fiscal year--
            (1) an identification of each covered country that 
        contributed to the Account;
            (2) the amount deposited into the Account by each such 
        covered country; and
            (3) for each such covered country, the designated defense 
        articles or services acquired or to be acquired.
    (f) Quarterly Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and quarterly thereafter, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report 
on the use of the Account that includes, for each transaction--
            (1) a description of the transaction;
            (2) the amount of the transaction;
            (3) the covered country concerned;
            (4) an identification of any storage, maintenance, or other 
        costs associated with the transaction; and
            (5) the anticipated date of delivery of the applicable 
        defense articles or services.
    (g) Termination.--The authority under subsection (b) to use funds 
in the Account shall terminate on January 1, 2028.
    (h) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to limit or impair the responsibilities conferred on the 
Secretary of State or the Secretary of Defense under the Arms Export 
Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.) or the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.).
    (i) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Appropriations, and the Committee on Foreign 
                Relations of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Appropriations, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs 
                of the House of Representatives.
            (2) Covered country.--The term ``covered country'' means--
                    (A) a country, other than the United States, that 
                is a participant in the security partnership among 
                Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States 
                (commonly known as the ``AUKUS'' partnership);
                    (B) a member country of the North Atlantic Treaty 
                Organization; and
                    (C) any other country, as designated by the 
                Secretary of Defense.

SEC. 1399G. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR TRAVEL EXPENSES OF 
              THE OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE.

    Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal 
year 2024 for operation and maintenance, Defense-wide, and available 
for the Office of the Secretary of Defense for travel expenses, not 
more than 75 percent may be obligated or expended until the Secretary 
of Defense submits--
            (1) the implementation plan required by section 1087 of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public 
        Law 117-263; 136 Stat. 2802; 10 U.S.C. 161 note) relating to 
        the requirement of such section to establish a joint force 
        headquarters in the area of operations of United States Indo-
        Pacific Command to serve as an operational command;
            (2) the plan required by section 1332(g)(2) of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117-
        81; 135 Stat. 2008) relating to strategic competition in the 
        areas of responsibility of United States Southern Command and 
        United States Africa Command; and
            (3) the strategy and posture review required by section 
        1631(g) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92; 133 Stat. 1743; 10 U.S.C. 397 
        note) relating to operations in the information environment.

SEC. 1399H. PLANS RELATED TO RAPID TRANSFER OF CERTAIN MISSILES AND 
              DEFENSE CAPABILITIES.

    (a) In General.--The Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Research, 
Development and Acquisition shall--
            (1) develop a plan to prepare Navy Harpoon block IC 
        missiles in a ``sundown'', ``deep stow'', or ``demilitarized'' 
        condition code (including missiles removed from Navy surface 
        ships) for rapid transfer to allies and security partners in 
        the United States European Command and United States Indo-
        Pacific Command areas of responsibility, if so ordered; and
            (2) establish a plan that would enable the rapid transfer 
        of additional enhanced coastal defense capabilities that have 
        tactical significance in assisting partners and allies in 
        reclaiming sovereign territory, deterring maritime resupply of 
        illegally seized territory, or aiding in preventing an 
        amphibious invasion of sovereign territory.
    (b) Submission to Congress.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary shall submit to 
the congressional defense committees the plans required by paragraphs 
(1) and (2) of subsection (a).

SEC. 1399I. ENSURING PEACE THROUGH STRENGTH IN ISRAEL.

    (a) Extension of Authorities.--
            (1) War reserves stockpile authority.--Section 12001(d) of 
        the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2005 (Public Law 
        108-287; 118 Stat. 1011) is amended by striking ``September 30, 
        2025'' and inserting ``January 1, 2028''.
            (2) Rules governing the transfer of precision-guided 
        munitions to israel above the annual restriction.--Section 
        1275(e) of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116-283; 134 
        Stat. 3980; 22 U.S.C. 2321h note) is amended by striking ``on 
        the date that is three years after the date of the enactment of 
        this Act'' and inserting ``on January 1, 2028''.
    (b) Department of Defense Assessment of Type and Quantity of 
Precision-guided Munitions and Other Munitions for Use by Israel.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter through 
        December 31, 2028, the Secretary of Defense shall conduct an 
        assessment with respect to the following:
                    (A) The current quantity and type of precision-
                guided munitions in the stockpile pursuant to section 
                12001(d) of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
                Act, 2005 (Public Law 108-287; 118 Stat. 1011).
                    (B) The quantity and type of precision-guided 
                munitions necessary for Israel to protect its homeland 
                and counter Hezbollah, Hamas, Palestinian Islamic 
                Jihad, or any other armed terror group or hostile 
                forces in the region in the event of a sustained armed 
                confrontation.
                    (C) The quantity and type of other munitions 
                necessary for Israel to protect its homeland and 
                counter Hezbollah, Hamas, Palestinian Islamic Jihad, or 
                any other armed group or hostile forces in the region 
                in the event of a sustained armed confrontation.
                    (D) The quantity and type of munitions, including 
                precision-guided munitions, necessary for Israel to 
                protect its homeland and counter any combination of 
                Hezbollah, Hamas, Palestinian Islamic Jihad, and any 
                other armed terror groups or hostile forces in the 
                region in the event of a multi-front, sustained armed 
                confrontation.
                    (E) The resources the Government of Israel would 
                need to dedicate to acquire the quantity and type of 
                munitions, including precision-guided munitions, 
                described in subparagraphs (B) through (D).
                    (F) Whether, as of the date on which the applicable 
                assessment is completed, sufficient quantities and 
                types of munitions, including precision-guided 
                munitions, to conduct operations described in 
                subparagraphs (B) through (D) are present in--
                            (i) the inventory of the military forces of 
                        Israel;
                            (ii) the War Reserves Stock Allies-Israel;
                            (iii) any other United States stockpile or 
                        depot within the area of responsibility of 
                        United States Central Command, as the Secretary 
                        considers appropriate to disclose to the 
                        Government of Israel; or
                            (iv) the inventory of the United States 
                        Armed Forces, as the Secretary considers 
                        appropriate to disclose to the Government of 
                        Israel.
                    (G) The current inventory of such munitions, 
                including precision-guided munitions, possessed by the 
                United States, and whether, as of the date on which the 
                applicable assessment is completed, the United States 
                is assessed to have sufficient munitions to meet the 
                requirements of current operation plans of the United 
                States or global other munitions requirements.
                    (H) United States planning and steps being taken--
                            (i) to assist Israel to prepare for the 
                        contingencies, and to conduct the operations, 
                        described in subparagraphs (B) through (D); and
                            (ii) to resupply Israel with the quantity 
                        and type of such munitions described in such 
                        subparagraphs in the event of a sustained armed 
                        confrontation described in such subparagraphs.
                    (I) The quantity and pace at which the United 
                States is capable of pre-positioning, increasing, 
                stockpiling, or rapidly replenishing, or assisting in 
                the rapid replenishment of, such munitions in 
                preparation for, and in the event of, such a sustained 
                armed confrontation.
            (2) Consultation.--In carrying out the assessment required 
        by paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult with the Israeli 
        Ministry of Defense, provided that the Israeli Ministry of 
        Defense agrees to be so consulted.
    (c) Reports.--
            (1) Department of defense assessment.--Not later than 15 
        days after the date on which each Department of Defense 
        assessment required by subsection (b) is completed, the 
        Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
        Congress a report on such assessment.
            (2) Pre-positioning and stockpile implementation report.--
        Not later than 180 days after the date on which the report 
        required by paragraph (1) is submitted, and every 180 days 
        thereafter through December 31, 2028, the Secretary shall 
        submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report 
        that--
                    (A) details the actions being taken by the United 
                States, if any, to pre-position, increase, stockpile, 
                address shortfalls, and otherwise ensure that the War 
                Reserves Stock Allies-Israel has, and assist Israel in 
                ensuring that Israel has, sufficient quantities and 
                types of munitions, including precision-guided 
                munitions, to conduct the operations described in 
                subparagraphs (B) through (D) of subsection (b)(1); and
                    (B) includes a description of procedures 
                implemented by the United States, if any, for rapidly 
                replenishing, or assisting in the rapid replenishment 
                of, stockpiles of such munitions for use by Israel as 
                may be necessary.
            (3) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified 
        annex.
            (4) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the 
                Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the 
                Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                Representatives.
    (d) Consolidation of Reports.--
            (1) Section 1273 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 
        Stat. 2066) is amended by striking subsection (b).
            (2) Section 1275 of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public 
        Law 116-283; 134 Stat. 3979; 22 U.S.C. 2321h note) is amended 
        by striking subsection (d).

SEC. 1399J. IMPROVEMENTS TO SECURITY COOPERATION WORKFORCE AND DEFENSE 
              ACQUISITION WORKFORCE.

    (a) Responsibilities of Secretary of Defense.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall, consistent 
        with the requirements of section 384 of title 10, United States 
        Code, as amended by section 1209 of this Act--
                    (A) carry out activities to professionalize, and 
                increase the resources available to, the security 
                cooperation workforce so as to enable the streamlining 
                and expediting of the foreign military sales process; 
                and
                    (B) seek to ensure that--
                            (i) members of the defense acquisition 
                        workforce involved in the foreign military 
                        sales process are aware of evolving United 
                        States regional and country-level defense 
                        capability-building priorities; and
                            (ii) members of the defense acquisition 
                        workforce are professionally evaluated using 
                        metrics to measure--
                                    (I) responsiveness to foreign 
                                partner requests;
                                    (II) ability to meet foreign 
                                partner capability and delivery 
                                schedule requirements; and
                                    (III) advancement of foreign 
                                capability-building priorities 
                                described in the guidance updated under 
                                subsection (b).
            (2) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
        the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives a report on the resources necessary to 
        implement paragraph (1), including--
                    (A) the anticipated costs of new personnel and 
                training to carry out such paragraph;
                    (B) the estimated increase in foreign military 
                sales administrative user fees necessary to offset such 
                costs; and
                    (C) the feasibility and advisability of 
                establishing, at the Department of Defense level or the 
                military department level, a contracting capacity 
                that--
                            (i) is specific to the execution of 
                        contracts for foreign military sales;
                            (ii) is fully funded by the Defense 
                        Security Cooperation Agency using foreign 
                        military sales administrative funds so as to 
                        ensure that such capacity is dedicated solely 
                        to foreign military sales contracting;
                            (iii) is monitored by the Defense Security 
                        Cooperation Agency Chief Performance Office, in 
                        coordination with the Under Secretary of 
                        Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, to 
                        ensure effectiveness in meeting foreign 
                        military sales contracting requirements; and
                            (iv) empowers the Director of the Defense 
                        Security Cooperation Agency, in coordination 
                        with the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy 
                        and the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                        Acquisition and Sustainment, to increase or 
                        decrease foreign military sales contracting 
                        capacity through the guidance updated under 
                        subsection (b).
    (b) Guidance.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        update, as necessary, Department of Defense guidance governing 
        the execution of foreign military sales by the Department to 
        ensure that such guidance--
                    (A) incorporates the National Security Strategy and 
                the National Defense Strategy;
                    (B) is informed by the theater campaign plans and 
                theater security cooperation strategies of the 
                combatant commands; and
                    (C) is disseminated to the security cooperation 
                workforce and the defense acquisition workforce.
            (2) Elements.--The updated guidance required by paragraph 
        (1) shall--
                    (A) identify--
                            (i) regional and country-level foreign 
                        defense capability-building priorities; and
                            (ii) levels of urgency and desired 
                        timelines for achieving foreign capability-
                        building objectives; and
                    (B) provide guidance to the defense acquisition 
                workforce regarding levels of resourcing, innovation, 
                and risk tolerance that should be considered in meeting 
                urgent needs.
    (c) Foreign Military Sales Continuous Process Improvement Board.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Secretary of Defense may establish 
        a Foreign Military Sales Continuous Process Improvement Board 
        (in this section referred to as the ``Board'') to serve as an 
        enduring governance structure within the Department of Defense 
        that reports to the Secretary on matters relating to the 
        foreign military sales process so as to enhance accountability 
        and continuous improvement within the Department, including the 
        objectives of--
                    (A) improving the understanding, among officials of 
                the Department, of ally and partner requirements;
                    (B) enabling efficient reviews for release of 
                technology;
                    (C) providing allies and partner countries with 
                relevant priority equipment;
                    (D) accelerating acquisition and contracting 
                support;
                    (E) expanding the capacity of the defense 
                industrial base; and
                    (F) working with other departments and agencies to 
                promote broad United States Government support.
            (2) Membership.--
                    (A) In general.--The Board shall be composed of not 
                fewer than seven members, each of whom shall have 
                expertise in the foreign military sales process.
                    (B) Restriction.--The Board may not have as a 
                member--
                            (i) an officer or employee of the 
                        Department of Defense; or
                            (ii) a member of the United States Armed 
                        Forces.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Defense acquisition workforce.--The term ``defense 
        acquisition workforce'' means the Department of Defense 
        acquisition workforce described in chapter 87 of title 10, 
        United States Code.
            (2) Security cooperation workforce.--The term ``security 
        cooperation workforce'' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 384 of title 10, United States Code.

SEC. 1399K. MODIFICATION OF FOREIGN MILITARY SALES PROCESSING.

    (a) Responses.--
            (1) Letters of request for pricing and availability.--The 
        Secretary of Defense shall seek to ensure that an eligible 
        foreign purchaser that has submitted a letter of request for 
        pricing and availability data receives a response to the letter 
        not later than 45 days after the date on which the letter is 
        received by a United States security cooperation organization, 
        the Defense Security Cooperation Agency, or other implementing 
        agency.
            (2) Letters of request for letters of offer and 
        acceptance.--The Secretary of Defense shall seek to ensure that 
        an eligible foreign purchaser that has submitted a letter of 
        request for a letter of offer and acceptance receives a 
        response--
                    (A) in the case of a letter of request for a 
                blanket-order letter of offer and acceptance, 
                cooperative logistics supply support arrangements, or 
                associated amendments and modifications, not later than 
                45 days after the date on which the letter of request 
                is received by a United States security cooperation 
                organization, the Defense Security Cooperation Agency, 
                or other implementing agency;
                    (B) in the case of a letter of request for a 
                defined-order letter of offer and acceptance or 
                associated amendments and modifications, not later than 
                100 days after such date; and
                    (C) in the case of a letter of request for a 
                defined-order letter of offer and acceptance or 
                associated amendments that involve extenuating factors, 
                as approved by the Director of the Defense Security 
                Cooperation Agency, not later than 150 days after such 
                date.
            (3) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense may waive paragraphs 
        (1) and (2) if--
                    (A) such a waiver is in the national security 
                interests of the United States; and
                    (B) not later than 5 days after exercising such 
                waiver authority, the Secretary provides to the 
                Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
                Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives notice of the exercise of such 
                authority, including an explanation of the one or more 
                reasons for failing to meet the applicable deadline.
    (b) Expansion of Country Prioritization.--With respect to foreign 
military sales to member countries of the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization, major non-NATO allies, major defense partners, and major 
security partners, the Secretary of Defense may assign a Defense 
Priorities and Allocations System order rating of DX (within the 
meaning of section 700.11 of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations (as 
in effect on the date of the enactment of this Act)).
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Blanket-order letter of offer and acceptance.--The term 
        ``blanket-order letter of offer and acceptance'' means an 
        agreement between an eligible foreign purchaser and the United 
        States Government for a specific category of items or services 
        (including training) that--
                    (A) does not include a definitive listing of items 
                or quantities; and
                    (B) specifies a maximum dollar amount against which 
                orders for defense articles and services may be placed.
            (2) Cooperative logistics supply support arrangement.--The 
        term ``cooperative logistics supply support arrangement'' means 
        a military logistics support arrangement designed to provide 
        responsive and continuous supply support at the depot level for 
        United States-made military materiel possessed by foreign 
        countries or international organizations.
            (3) Defined-order letter of offer and acceptance.--The term 
        ``defined-order letter of offer and acceptance'' means a 
        foreign military sales case characterized by an order for a 
        specific defense article or service that is separately 
        identified as a line item on a letter of offer and acceptance.
            (4) Implementing agency.--The term ``implementing agency'' 
        means the military department or defense agency assigned, by 
        the Director of the Defense Security Cooperation Agency, the 
        responsibilities of--
                    (A) preparing a letter of offer and acceptance;
                    (B) implementing a foreign military sales case; and
                    (C) carrying out the overall management of the 
                activities that--
                            (i) will result in the delivery of the 
                        defense articles or services set forth in the 
                        letter of offer and acceptance; and
                            (ii) was accepted by an eligible foreign 
                        purchaser.
            (5) Letter of request.--The term ``letter of request''--
                    (A) means a written document--
                            (i) submitted to a United States security 
                        cooperation organization, the Defense Security 
                        Cooperation Agency, or an implementing agency 
                        by an eligible foreign purchaser for the 
                        purpose of requesting to purchase or otherwise 
                        obtain a United States defense article or 
                        defense service through the foreign military 
                        sales process; and
                            (ii) that contains all relevant information 
                        in such form as may be required by the 
                        Secretary of Defense; and
                    (B) includes--
                            (i) a formal letter;
                            (ii) an e-mail;
                            (iii) signed meeting minutes from a 
                        recognized official of the government of an 
                        eligible foreign purchaser; and
                            (iv) any other form of written document, as 
                        determined by the Secretary of Defense or the 
                        Director of the Defense Security Cooperation 
                        Agency.
            (6) Major defense partner.--The term ``major defense 
        partner'' means--
                    (A) India; and
                    (B) any other country, as designated by the 
                Secretary of Defense.
            (7) Major non-nato ally.--The term ``major non-NATO 
        ally''--
                    (A) has the meaning given the term in section 644 
                of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
                2403)); and
                    (B) includes Taiwan, as required by section 1206 of 
                the Security Assistance Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-
                228; 22U.S.C. 2321k note).
            (8) Major security partner.--The term ``major security 
        partner'' means--
                    (A) the United Arab Emirates;
                    (B) Bahrain;
                    (C) Saudi Arabia; and
                    (D) any other country, as designated by the 
                Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the 
                Secretary of State and the Director of National 
                Intelligence.

SEC. 1399L. ENDING CHINA'S DEVELOPING NATION STATUS.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Ending China's 
Developing Nation Status Act''.
    (b) Finding; Statement of Policy.--
            (1) Finding.--Congress finds that the People's Republic of 
        China is still classified as a developing nation under multiple 
        treaties and international organization structures, even though 
        China has grown to be the second largest economy in the world.
            (2) Statement of policy.--It is the policy of the United 
        States--
                    (A) to oppose the labeling or treatment of the 
                People's Republic of China as a developing nation in 
                current and future treaty negotiations and in each 
                international organization of which the United States 
                and the People's Republic of China are both current 
                members;
                    (B) to pursue the labeling or treatment of the 
                People's Republic of China as a developed nation in 
                each international organization of which the United 
                States and the People's Republic of China are both 
                current members; and
                    (C) to work with allies and partners of the United 
                States to implement the policies described in 
                paragraphs (1) and (2).
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
                Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the 
                House of Representatives with respect to--
                            (i) reports produced by the Secretary of 
                        State; and
                            (ii) a waiver exercised pursuant to 
                        subsection (f)(2), except with respect to any 
                        international organization for which the United 
                        States Trade Representative is the chief 
                        representative of the United States; and
                    (B) the Committee on Finance of the Senate and the 
                Committee on Ways and Means of the House of 
                Representatives with respect to--
                            (i) reports produced by the United States 
                        Trade Representative; and
                            (ii) a waiver exercised pursuant to 
                        subsection (f)(2) with respect to any 
                        international organization for which the United 
                        States Trade Representative is the chief 
                        representative of the United States.
            (2) Secretary.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
                State.
                    (B) Exception.--The term ``Secretary'' shall mean 
                the United States Trade Representative with respect to 
                any international organization for which the United 
                States Trade Representative is the chief representative 
                of the United States.
    (d) Report on Development Status in Current Treaty Negotiations.--
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary shall submit a report to the appropriate committees of 
Congress that--
            (1) identifies all current treaty negotiations in which--
                    (A) the proposed treaty would provide for different 
                treatment or standards for enforcement of the treaty 
                based on respective development status of the states 
                that are party to the treaty; and
                    (B) the People's Republic of China is actively 
                participating in the negotiations, or it is reasonably 
                foreseeable that the People's Republic of China would 
                seek to become a party to the treaty; and
            (2) for each treaty negotiation identified pursuant to 
        paragraph (1), describes how the treaty under negotiation would 
        provide different treatment or standards for enforcement of the 
        treaty based on development status of the states parties.
    (e) Report on Development Status in Existing Organizations and 
Treaties.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall submit a report to the appropriate 
committees of Congress that--
            (1) identifies all international organizations or treaties, 
        of which the United States is a member, that provide different 
        treatment or standards for enforcement based on the respective 
        development status of the member states or states parties;
            (2) describes the mechanisms for changing the country 
        designation for each relevant treaty or organization; and
            (3) for each of the organizations or treaties identified 
        pursuant to paragraph (1)--
                    (A) includes a list of countries that--
                            (i) are labeled as developing nations or 
                        receive the benefits of a developing nation 
                        under the terms of the organization or treaty; 
                        and
                            (ii) meet the World Bank classification for 
                        upper middle income or high-income countries; 
                        and
                    (B) describes how the organization or treaty 
                provides different treatment or standards for 
                enforcement based on development status of the member 
                states or states parties.
    (f) Mechanisms for Changing Development Status.--
            (1) In general.--In any international organization of which 
        the United States and the People's Republic of China are both 
        current members, the Secretary, in consultation with allies and 
        partners of the United States, shall pursue--
                    (A) changing the status of the People's Republic of 
                China from developing nation to developed nation if a 
                mechanism exists in such organization to make such 
                status change; or
                    (B) proposing the development of a mechanism 
                described in paragraph (1) to change the status of the 
                People's Republic of China in such organization from 
                developing nation to developed nation.
            (2) Waiver.--The President may waive the application of 
        subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (1) with respect to any 
        international organization if the President notifies the 
        appropriate committees of Congress that such a waiver is in the 
        national interests of the United States.

SEC. 1399M. SHARING OF INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO SUSPECTED VIOLATIONS 
              OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS.

    Section 628A of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1628a) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1), by inserting ``, packing 
        materials, shipping containers,'' after ``its packaging'' each 
        place it appears; and
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (3), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (B) in paragraph (4), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) any other party with an interest in the merchandise, 
        as determined appropriate by the Commissioner.''.

SEC. 1399N. FOREIGN PORT SECURITY ASSESSMENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``International 
Port Security Enforcement Act''.
    (b) In General.--Section 70108 of title 46, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (f)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``provided that'' 
                and all that follows and inserting the following: 
                ``if--
                    ``(A) the Secretary certifies that the foreign 
                government or international organization--
                            ``(i) has conducted the assessment in 
                        accordance with subsection (b); and
                            ``(ii) has provided the Secretary with 
                        sufficient information pertaining to its 
                        assessment (including information regarding the 
                        outcome of the assessment); and
                    ``(B) the foreign government that conducted the 
                assessment is not a state sponsor of terrorism (as 
                defined in section 3316(h).''; and
                    (B) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
            ``(3) Limitations.--Nothing in this section may be 
        construed--
                    ``(A) to require the Secretary to treat an 
                assessment conducted by a foreign government or an 
                international organization as an assessment that 
                satisfies the requirement under subsection (a);
                    ``(B) to limit the discretion or ability of the 
                Secretary to conduct an assessment under this section;
                    ``(C) to limit the authority of the Secretary to 
                repatriate aliens to their respective countries of 
                origin; or
                    ``(D) to prevent the Secretary from requesting 
                security and safety measures that the Secretary 
                considers necessary to safeguard Coast Guard personnel 
                during the repatriation of aliens to their respective 
                countries of origin.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) State Sponsors of Terrorism and International Terrorist 
Organizations.--The Secretary--
            ``(1) may not enter into an agreement under subsection 
        (f)(2) with--
                    ``(A) a foreign government that is a state sponsor 
                of terrorism; or
                    ``(B) a foreign terrorist organization; and
            ``(2) shall--
                    ``(A) deem any port that is under the jurisdiction 
                of a foreign government that is a state sponsor of 
                terrorism as not having effective antiterrorism 
                measures for purposes of this section and section 
                70109; and
                    ``(B) immediately apply the sanctions described in 
                section 70110(a) to such port.''.

SEC. 1399O. LEGAL PREPAREDNESS FOR SERVICEMEMBERS ABROAD.

    (a) Review Required.--Not later than December 31, 2024, the 
Secretary of State, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense, 
shall--
            (1) review the 10 largest foreign countries by United 
        States Armed Forces presence and evaluate local legal systems, 
        protections afforded by bilateral agreements between the United 
        States and countries being evaluated, and how the rights and 
        privileges afforded under such agreements may differ from 
        United States law; and
            (2) brief the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee 
        on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign 
        Relations of the Senate on the findings of the review.
    (b) Training Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall review and 
improve as necessary training and educational materials for members of 
the Armed Forces, their spouses, and dependents, as appropriate, who 
are stationed in a country reviewed pursuant to subsection (a)(1) 
regarding relevant foreign laws, how such foreign laws may differ from 
the laws of the United States, and the rights of accused in common 
scenarios under such foreign laws.
    (c) Translation Standards and Readiness.--The Secretary of Defense, 
in coordination with the Secretary of State, shall review foreign 
language standards for servicemembers and employees of the Department 
of Defense and Department of State who are responsible for providing 
foreign language translation services in situations involving foreign 
law enforcement where a servicemember may be being detained, to ensure 
such persons maintain an appropriate proficiency in the legal 
terminology and meaning of essential terms in a relevant language.

             Subtitle H--Limitation on Withdrawal From NATO

SEC. 1399AA. OPPOSITION OF CONGRESS TO SUSPENSION, TERMINATION, 
              DENUNCIATION, OR WITHDRAWAL FROM NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY.

    The President shall not suspend, terminate, denounce, or withdraw 
the United States from the North Atlantic Treaty, done at Washington, 
DC, April 4, 1949, except by and with the advice and consent of the 
Senate, provided that two-thirds of the Senators present concur, or 
pursuant to an Act of Congress.

SEC. 1399BB. LIMITATION ON THE USE OF FUNDS.

    No funds authorized or appropriated by any Act may be used to 
support, directly or indirectly, any decision on the part of any United 
States Government official to suspend, terminate, denounce, or withdraw 
the United States from the North Atlantic Treaty, done at Washington, 
DC, April 4, 1949, until such time as both the Senate and the House of 
Representatives pass, by an affirmative vote of two-thirds of Members, 
a joint resolution approving the withdrawal of the United States from 
the treaty, or pursuant to an Act of Congress.

SEC. 1399CC. NOTIFICATION OF TREATY ACTION.

    (a) Consultation.--Prior to the notification described in 
subsection (b), the President shall consult with the Committee on 
Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of 
the House of Representatives in relation to any initiative to suspend, 
terminate, denounce, or withdraw the United States from the North 
Atlantic Treaty.
    (b) Notification.--The President shall notify the Committee on 
Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of 
the House of Representatives in writing of any deliberation or decision 
to suspend, terminate, denounce, or withdraw the United States from the 
North Atlantic Treaty, as soon as possible but in no event later than 
180 days prior to taking such action.

SEC. 1399DD. AUTHORIZATION OF LEGAL COUNSEL TO REPRESENT CONGRESS.

    (a) In General.--By adoption of a resolution of the Senate or the 
House of Representatives, respectively, the Senate Legal Counsel or the 
General Counsel to the House of Representatives may be authorized to 
initiate, or intervene in, in the name of the Senate or the House of 
Representatives, as the case may be, independently, or jointly, any 
judicial proceedings in any Federal court of competent jurisdiction in 
order to oppose any action to suspend, terminate, denounce, or withdraw 
the United States from the North Atlantic Treaty in a manner 
inconsistent with this subtitle.
    (b) Consideration.--Any resolution or joint resolution introduced 
relating to any action to suspend, terminate, denounce or withdraw the 
United States from the North Atlantic Treaty and introduced pursuant to 
section 4(a) of this title shall be considered in accordance with the 
procedures of section 601(b) of the International Security Assistance 
and Arms Export Control Act of 1976 (Public Law 94-329; 90 Stat. 765).

SEC. 1399EE. REPORTING REQUIREMENT.

    Any legal counsel operating pursuant to section 1299R shall report 
as soon as practicable to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
Senate or the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
Representatives with respect to any judicial proceedings which the 
Senate Legal Counsel or the General Counsel to the House of 
Representatives, as the case may be, initiates or in which it 
intervenes pursuant to section 1299R.

SEC. 1399FF. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.

    Nothing in this subtitle shall be construed to authorize, imply, or 
otherwise indicate that the President may suspend, terminate, denounce, 
or withdraw from any treaty to which the Senate has provided its advice 
and consent without the advice and consent of the Senate to such act or 
pursuant to an Act of Congress.

SEC. 1399GG. SEVERABILITY.

    If any provision of this subtitle or the application of such 
provision is held by a Federal court to be unconstitutional, the 
remainder of this subtitle and the application of such provisions to 
any other person or circumstance shall not be affected thereby.

SEC. 1399HH. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle, the terms ``withdrawal'', ``denunciation'', 
``suspension'', and ``termination'' have the meaning given the terms in 
the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, concluded at Vienna May 
23, 1969.

                Subtitle I--Combating Global Corruption

SEC. 1399AAA. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Combating Global Corruption 
Act''.

SEC. 1399BBB. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Corrupt actor.--The term ``corrupt actor'' means--
                    (A) any foreign person or entity that is a 
                government official or government entity responsible 
                for, or complicit in, an act of corruption; and
                    (B) any company, in which a person or entity 
                described in subparagraph (A) has a significant stake, 
                which is responsible for, or complicit in, an act of 
                corruption.
            (2) Corruption.--The term ``corruption'' means the unlawful 
        exercise of entrusted public power for private gain, including 
        by bribery, nepotism, fraud, or embezzlement.
            (3) Significant corruption.--The term ``significant 
        corruption'' means corruption committed at a high level of 
        government that has some or all of the following 
        characteristics:
                    (A) Illegitimately distorts major decision-making, 
                such as policy or resource determinations, or other 
                fundamental functions of governance.
                    (B) Involves economically or socially large-scale 
                government activities.

SEC. 1399CCC. PUBLICATION OF TIERED RANKING LIST.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of State shall annually publish, on 
a publicly accessible website, a tiered ranking of all foreign 
countries.
    (b) Tier 1 Countries.--A country shall be ranked as a tier 1 
country in the ranking published under subsection (a) if the government 
of such country is complying with the minimum standards set forth in 
section 1299R.
    (c) Tier 2 Countries.--A country shall be ranked as a tier 2 
country in the ranking published under subsection (a) if the government 
of such country is making efforts to comply with the minimum standards 
set forth in section 1299R, but is not achieving the requisite level of 
compliance to be ranked as a tier 1 country.
    (d) Tier 3 Countries.--A country shall be ranked as a tier 3 
country in the ranking published under subsection (a) if the government 
of such country is making de minimis or no efforts to comply with the 
minimum standards set forth in section 1299R.

SEC. 1399DDD. MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR THE ELIMINATION OF CORRUPTION AND 
              ASSESSMENT OF EFFORTS TO COMBAT CORRUPTION.

    (a) In General.--The government of a country is complying with the 
minimum standards for the elimination of corruption if the government--
            (1) has enacted and implemented laws and established 
        government structures, policies, and practices that prohibit 
        corruption, including significant corruption;
            (2) enforces the laws described in paragraph (1) by 
        punishing any person who is found, through a fair judicial 
        process, to have violated such laws;
            (3) prescribes punishment for significant corruption that 
        is commensurate with the punishment prescribed for serious 
        crimes; and
            (4) is making serious and sustained efforts to address 
        corruption, including through prevention.
    (b) Factors for Assessing Government Efforts To Combat 
Corruption.--In determining whether a government is making serious and 
sustained efforts to address corruption, the Secretary of State shall 
consider, to the extent relevant or appropriate, factors such as--
            (1) whether the government of the country has criminalized 
        corruption, investigates and prosecutes acts of corruption, and 
        convicts and sentences persons responsible for such acts over 
        which it has jurisdiction, including, as appropriate, 
        incarcerating individuals convicted of such acts;
            (2) whether the government of the country vigorously 
        investigates, prosecutes, convicts, and sentences public 
        officials who participate in or facilitate corruption, 
        including nationals of the country who are deployed in foreign 
        military assignments, trade delegations abroad, or other 
        similar missions, who engage in or facilitate significant 
        corruption;
            (3) whether the government of the country has adopted 
        measures to prevent corruption, such as measures to inform and 
        educate the public, including potential victims, about the 
        causes and consequences of corruption;
            (4) what steps the government of the country has taken to 
        prohibit government officials from participating in, 
        facilitating, or condoning corruption, including the 
        investigation, prosecution, and conviction of such officials;
            (5) the extent to which the country provides access, or, as 
        appropriate, makes adequate resources available, to civil 
        society organizations and other institutions to combat 
        corruption, including reporting, investigating, and monitoring;
            (6) whether an independent judiciary or judicial body in 
        the country is responsible for, and effectively capable of, 
        deciding corruption cases impartially, on the basis of facts 
        and in accordance with the law, without any improper 
        restrictions, influences, inducements, pressures, threats, or 
        interferences (direct or indirect);
            (7) whether the government of the country is assisting in 
        international investigations of transnational corruption 
        networks and in other cooperative efforts to combat significant 
        corruption, including, as appropriate, cooperating with the 
        governments of other countries to extradite corrupt actors;
            (8) whether the government of the country recognizes the 
        rights of victims of corruption, ensures their access to 
        justice, and takes steps to prevent victims from being further 
        victimized or persecuted by corrupt actors, government 
        officials, or others;
            (9) whether the government of the country protects victims 
        of corruption or whistleblowers from reprisal due to such 
        persons having assisted in exposing corruption, and refrains 
        from other discriminatory treatment of such persons;
            (10) whether the government of the country is willing and 
        able to recover and, as appropriate, return the proceeds of 
        corruption;
            (11) whether the government of the country is taking steps 
        to implement financial transparency measures in line with the 
        Financial Action Task Force recommendations, including due 
        diligence and beneficial ownership transparency requirements;
            (12) whether the government of the country is facilitating 
        corruption in other countries in connection with state-directed 
        investment, loans or grants for major infrastructure, or other 
        initiatives; and
            (13) such other information relating to corruption as the 
        Secretary of State considers appropriate.
    (c) Assessing Government Efforts to Combat Corruption in Relation 
to Relevant International Commitments.--In determining whether a 
government is making serious and sustained efforts to address 
corruption, the Secretary of State shall consider the government of a 
country's compliance with the following, as relevant:
            (1) The Inter-American Convention against Corruption of the 
        Organization of American States, done at Caracas March 29, 
        1996.
            (2) The Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public 
        Officials in International Business Transactions of the 
        Organisation of Economic Co-operation and Development, done at 
        Paris December 21, 1997 (commonly referred to as the ``Anti-
        Bribery Convention'').
            (3) The United Nations Convention against Transnational 
        Organized Crime, done at New York November 15, 2000.
            (4) The United Nations Convention against Corruption, done 
        at New York October 31, 2003.
            (5) Such other treaties, agreements, and international 
        standards as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

SEC. 1399EEE. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS UNDER GLOBAL MAGNITSKY HUMAN 
              RIGHTS ACCOUNTABILITY ACT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of State, in coordination with the 
Secretary of the Treasury, should evaluate whether there are foreign 
persons engaged in significant corruption for the purposes of potential 
imposition of sanctions under the Global Magnitsky Human Rights 
Accountability Act (subtitle F of title XII of Public Law 114-328; 22 
U.S.C. 2656 note)--
            (1) in all countries identified as tier 3 countries under 
        section 1299Q(d); or
            (2) in relation to the planning or construction or any 
        operation of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after publishing the 
list required by section 1299Q(a) and annually thereafter, the 
Secretary of State shall submit to the committees specified in 
subsection (e) a report that includes--
            (1) a list of foreign persons with respect to which the 
        President imposed sanctions pursuant to the evaluation under 
        subsection (a);
            (2) the dates on which such sanctions were imposed;
            (3) the reasons for imposing such sanctions; and
            (4) a list of all foreign persons that have been engaged in 
        significant corruption in relation to the planning, 
        construction, or operation of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline.
    (c) Form of Report.--Each report required by subsection (b) shall 
be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Briefing in Lieu of Report.--The Secretary of State, in 
coordination with the Secretary of the Treasury, may (except with 
respect to the list required by subsection (b)(4)) provide a briefing 
to the committees specified in subsection (e) instead of submitting a 
written report required under subsection (b), if doing so would better 
serve existing United States anti-corruption efforts or the national 
interests of the Untied States.
    (e) Termination of Requirements Relating to Nord Stream 2.--The 
requirements under subsections (a)(2) and (b)(4) shall terminate on the 
date that is 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (f) Committees Specified.--The committees specified in this 
subsection are--
            (1) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
        Affairs, and the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, the Committee on Financial Services, and the 
        Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 1399FFF. DESIGNATION OF EMBASSY ANTI-CORRUPTION POINTS OF CONTACT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of State shall annually designate an 
anti-corruption point of contact at the United States diplomatic post 
to each country identified as tier 2 or tier 3 under section 1299Q, or 
which the Secretary otherwise determines is in need of such a point of 
contact. The point of contact shall be the chief of mission or the 
chief of mission's designee.
    (b) Responsibilities.--Each anti-corruption point of contact 
designated under subsection (a) shall be responsible for enhancing 
coordination and promoting the implementation of a whole-of-government 
approach among the relevant Federal departments and agencies 
undertaking efforts to--
            (1) promote good governance in foreign countries; and
            (2) enhance the ability of such countries--
                    (A) to combat public corruption; and
                    (B) to develop and implement corruption risk 
                assessment tools and mitigation strategies.
    (c) Training.--The Secretary of State shall implement appropriate 
training for anti-corruption points of contact designated under 
subsection (a).

    Subtitle J--International Children With Disabilities Protection

SEC. 1399AAAA. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``International Children with 
Disabilities Protection Act of 2023''.

SEC. 1399BBBB. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) stigma and discrimination against children with 
        disabilities, particularly intellectual and other developmental 
        disabilities, and lack of support for community inclusion have 
        left people with disabilities and their families economically 
        and socially marginalized;
            (2) organizations of persons with disabilities and family 
        members of persons with disabilities are often too small to 
        apply for or obtain funds from domestic or international 
        sources or ineligible to receive funds from such sources;
            (3) as a result of the factors described in paragraphs (1) 
        and (2), key stakeholders have often been left out of public 
        policymaking on matters that affect children with disabilities; 
        and
            (4) financial support, technical assistance, and active 
        engagement of persons with disabilities and their families is 
        needed to ensure the development of effective policies that 
        protect families, ensure the full inclusion in society of 
        children with disabilities, and promote the ability of persons 
        with disabilities to live in the community with choices equal 
        to others.

SEC. 1399CCCC. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Department.--The term ``Department'' means the 
        Department of State.
            (2) Eligible implementing partner.--The term ``eligible 
        implementing partner'' means a nongovernmental organization or 
        other civil society organization that--
                    (A) has the capacity to administer grants directly 
                or through subgrants that can be effectively used by 
                local organizations of persons with disabilities; and
                    (B) has international expertise in the rights of 
                persons with disabilities, including children with 
                disabilities and their families.
            (3) Organization of persons with disabilities.--The term 
        ``organization of persons with disabilities'' means a 
        nongovernmental civil society organization run by and for 
        persons with disabilities and families of children with 
        disabilities.

SEC. 1399DDDD. STATEMENT OF POLICY.

    It is the policy of the United States to--
            (1) assist partner countries in developing policies and 
        programs that recognize, support, and protect the civil and 
        political rights of and enjoyment of fundamental freedoms by 
        persons with disabilities, including children, such that the 
        latter may grow and thrive in supportive family environments 
        and make the transition to independent living as adults;
            (2) promote the development of advocacy and leadership 
        skills among persons with disabilities and their families in a 
        manner that enables effective civic engagement, including at 
        the local, national, and regional levels, and promote policy 
        reforms and programs that support full economic and civic 
        inclusion of persons with disabilities and their families;
            (3) promote the development of laws and policies that--
                    (A) strengthen families and protect against the 
                unnecessary institutionalization of children with 
                disabilities; and
                    (B) create opportunities for children and youth 
                with disabilities to access the resources and support 
                needed to achieve their full potential to live 
                independently in the community with choices equal to 
                others;
            (4) promote the participation of persons with disabilities 
        and their families in advocacy efforts and legal frameworks to 
        recognize, support, and protect the civil and political rights 
        of and enjoyment of fundamental freedoms by persons with 
        disabilities; and
            (5) promote the sustainable action needed to bring about 
        changes in law, policy, and programs to ensure full family 
        inclusion of children with disabilities and the transition of 
        children with disabilities to independent living as adults.

SEC. 1399EEEE. INTERNATIONAL CHILDREN WITH DISABILITIES PROTECTION 
              PROGRAM AND CAPACITY BUILDING.

    (a) International Children With Disabilities Protection Program.--
            (1) In general.--There is authorized to be established 
        within the Department of State a program to be known as the 
        ``International Children with Disabilities Protection Program'' 
        (in this section referred to as the ``Program'') to carry out 
        the policy described in [section _4].
            (2) Criteria.--In carrying out the Program under this 
        section, the Secretary of State, in consultation with leading 
        civil society groups with expertise in the protection of civil 
        and political rights of and enjoyment of fundamental freedoms 
        by persons with disabilities, may establish criteria for 
        priority activities under the Program in selected countries.
            (3) Disability inclusion grants.--The Secretary of State 
        may award grants to eligible implementing partners to 
        administer grant amounts directly or through subgrants.
            (4) Subgrants.--An eligible implementing partner that 
        receives a grant under paragraph (3) should provide subgrants 
        and, in doing so, shall prioritize local organizations of 
        persons with disabilities working within a focus country or 
        region to advance the policy described in [section _4].
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--Of funds made available in fiscal years 
        2024 through 2029 to carry out the purposes of the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq), there are 
        authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subtitle 
        amounts as follows:
                    (A) $2,000,000 for fiscal year 2024.
                    (B) $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2025 
                through 2029.
            (2) Capacity-building and technical assistance programs.--
        Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by paragraph (1), 
        not less than $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2024 through 
        2029 should be available for capacity-building and technical 
        assistance programs to--
                    (A) develop the leadership skills of persons with 
                disabilities, legislators, policymakers, and service 
                providers in the planning and implementation of 
                programs to advance the policy described in [section 
                _4];
                    (B) increase awareness of successful models of the 
                promotion of civil and political rights and fundamental 
                freedoms, family support, and economic and civic 
                inclusion among organizations of persons with 
                disabilities and allied civil society advocates, 
                attorneys, and professionals to advance the policy 
                described in [section _4]; and
                    (C) create online programs to train policymakers, 
                advocates, and other individuals on successful models 
                to advance reforms, services, and protection measures 
                that enable children with disabilities to live within 
                supportive family environments and become full 
                participants in society, which--
                            (i) are available globally;
                            (ii) offer low-cost or no-cost training 
                        accessible to persons with disabilities, family 
                        members of such persons, and other individuals 
                        with potential to offer future leadership in 
                        the advancement of the goals of family 
                        inclusion, transition to independent living as 
                        adults, and protection measures for children 
                        with disabilities; and
                            (iii) should be targeted to government 
                        policymakers, advocates, and other potential 
                        allies and supporters among civil society 
                        groups.

SEC. 1399FFFF. ANNUAL REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION.

    (a) Annual Report Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not less frequently than annually through 
        fiscal year 2029, the Secretary of State shall submit to the 
        Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign 
        Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives a report on--
                    (A) the programs and activities carried out to 
                advance the policy described in [section _4]; and
                    (B) any broader work of the Department in advancing 
                that policy.
            (2) Elements.--Each report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include, with respect to each program carried out under 
        [section _5]--
                    (A) the rationale for the country and program 
                selection;
                    (B) the goals and objectives of the program, and 
                the kinds of participants in the activities and 
                programs supported;
                    (C) a description of the types of technical 
                assistance and capacity building provided; and
                    (D) an identification of any gaps in funding or 
                support needed to ensure full participation of 
                organizations of persons with disabilities or inclusion 
                of children with disabilities in the program.
            (3) Consultation.--In preparing each report required by 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary of State shall consult with 
        organizations of persons with disabilities.

SEC. 1399GGGG. PROMOTING INTERNATIONAL PROTECTION AND ADVOCACY FOR 
              CHILDREN WITH DISABILITIES.

    (a) Sense of Congress on Programming and Programs.--It is the sense 
of Congress that--
            (1) all programming of the Department and the United States 
        Agency for International Development related to health systems 
        strengthening, primary and secondary education, and the 
        protection of civil and political rights of persons with 
        disabilities should seek to be consistent with the policy 
        described in [section _4]; and
            (2) programs of the Department and the United States Agency 
        for International Development related to children, global 
        health, and education--
                    (A) should--
                            (i) engage organizations of persons with 
                        disabilities in policymaking and program 
                        implementation; and
                            (ii) support full inclusion of children 
                        with disabilities in families; and
                    (B) should aim to avoid support for residential 
                institutions for children with disabilities except in 
                situations of conflict or emergency in a manner that 
                protects family connections as described in subsection 
                (b).
    (b) Sense of Congress on Conflict and Emergencies.--It is the sense 
of Congress that--
            (1) programs of the Department and the United States Agency 
        for International Development serving children in situations of 
        conflict or emergency, among displaced or refugee populations, 
        or in natural disasters should seek to ensure that children 
        with and without disabilities can maintain family ties; and
            (2) in situations of emergency, if children are separated 
        from parents or have no family, every effort should be made to 
        ensure that children are placed with extended family, in 
        kinship care, or in an adoptive or foster family.

         Subtitle K--Western Hemisphere Partnership Act of 2023

SEC. 1399AAAAA. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Western Hemisphere Partnership 
Act of 2023''.

SEC. 1399BBBBB. UNITED STATES POLICY IN THE WESTERN HEMISPHERE.

    It is the policy of the United States to promote economic 
competitiveness, democratic governance, and security in the Western 
Hemisphere by--
            (1) encouraging stronger economic relations, respect for 
        property rights, the rule of law, and enforceable investment 
        rules and labor and environmental standards;
            (2) advancing the principles and practices expressed in the 
        Charter of the Organization of American States, the American 
        Declaration on the Rights and Duties of Man, and the Inter-
        American Democratic Charter; and
            (3) enhancing the capacity and technical capabilities of 
        democratic partner nation government institutions, including 
        civilian law enforcement, the judiciary, attorneys general, and 
        security forces.

SEC. 1399CCCCC. PROMOTING SECURITY AND THE RULE OF LAW IN THE WESTERN 
              HEMISPHERE.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the United 
States should strengthen security cooperation with democratic partner 
nations in the Western Hemisphere to promote a secure hemisphere and to 
address the negative impacts of transnational criminal organizations 
and malign external state actors.
    (b) Collaborative Efforts.--The Secretary of State, in coordination 
with the heads of other relevant Federal agencies, should support the 
improvement of security conditions and the rule of law in the Western 
Hemisphere through collaborative efforts with democratic partners 
that--
            (1) enhance the institutional capacity and technical 
        capabilities of defense and security institutions in democratic 
        partner nations to conduct national or regional security 
        missions, including through regular bilateral and multilateral 
        engagements, foreign military sales and financing, 
        international military education and training programs, 
        expanding the National Guard State Partnership Programs, and 
        other means;
            (2) provide technical assistance and material support 
        (including, as appropriate, radars, vessels, and communications 
        equipment) to relevant security forces to disrupt, degrade, and 
        dismantle organizations involved in the illicit trafficking of 
        narcotics and precursor chemicals, transnational criminal 
        activities, illicit mining, and illegal, unreported, and 
        unregulated fishing, and other illicit activities;
            (3) enhance the institutional capacity, legitimacy, and 
        technical capabilities of relevant civilian law enforcement, 
        attorneys general, and judicial institutions to--
                    (A) strengthen the rule of law and transparent 
                governance;
                    (B) combat corruption and kleptocracy in the 
                region; and
                    (C) improve regional cooperation to disrupt, 
                degrade, and dismantle transnational organized criminal 
                networks and terrorist organizations, including through 
                training, anticorruption initiatives, anti-money 
                laundering programs, and strengthening cyber 
                capabilities and resources;
            (4) enhance port management and maritime security 
        partnerships and airport management and aviation security 
        partnerships to disrupt, degrade, and dismantle transnational 
        criminal networks and facilitate the legitimate flow of people, 
        goods, and services;
            (5) strengthen cooperation to improve border security 
        across the Western Hemisphere, dismantle human smuggling and 
        trafficking networks, and increase cooperation to demonstrably 
        strengthen migration management systems;
            (6) counter the malign influence of state and non-state 
        actors and disinformation campaigns;
            (7) disrupt illicit domestic and transnational financial 
        networks;
            (8) foster mechanisms for cooperation on emergency 
        preparedness and rapid recovery from natural disasters, 
        including by--
                    (A) supporting regional preparedness, recovery, and 
                emergency management centers to facilitate rapid 
                response to survey and help maintain planning on 
                regional disaster anticipated needs and possible 
                resources;
                    (B) training disaster recovery officials on latest 
                techniques and lessons learned from United States 
                experiences;
                    (C) making available, preparing, and transferring 
                on-hand nonlethal supplies, and providing training on 
                the use of such supplies, for humanitarian or health 
                purposes to respond to unforeseen emergencies; and
                    (D) conducting medical support operations and 
                medical humanitarian missions, such as hospital ship 
                deployments and base-operating services, to the extent 
                required by the operation;
            (9) foster regional mechanisms for early warning and 
        response to pandemics in the Western Hemisphere, including 
        through--
                    (A) improved cooperation with and research by the 
                United States Centers for Disease Control and 
                Prevention through regional pandemic response centers;
                    (B) personnel exchanges for technology transfer and 
                skills development; and
                    (C) surveying and mapping of health networks to 
                build local health capacity;
            (10) promote the meaningful participation of women across 
        all political processes, including conflict prevention and 
        conflict resolution and post-conflict relief and recovery 
        efforts; and
            (11) hold accountable actors that violate political and 
        civil rights.
    (c) Limitations on Use of Technologies.--Operational technologies 
transferred pursuant to subsection (b) to partner governments for 
intelligence, defense, or law enforcement purposes shall be used solely 
for the purposes for which the technology was intended. The United 
States shall take all necessary steps to ensure that the use of such 
operational technologies is consistent with United States law, 
including protections of freedom of expression, freedom of movement, 
and freedom of association.
    (d) Strategy.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in 
        coordination with the heads of other relevant Federal agencies, 
        shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives a 5-year strategy to promote security and the 
        rule of law in the Western Hemisphere in accordance to this 
        section.
            (2) Elements.--The strategy required under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following elements:
                    (A) A detailed assessment of the resources required 
                to carry out such collaborative efforts.
                    (B) Annual benchmarks to track progress and 
                obstacles in undertaking such collaborative efforts.
                    (C) A public diplomacy component to engage the 
                people of the Western Hemisphere with the purpose of 
                demonstrating that the security of their countries is 
                enhanced to a greater extent through alignment with the 
                United States and democratic values rather than with 
                authoritarian countries such as the People's Republic 
                of China, the Russian Federation, and the Islamic 
                Republic of Iran.
            (3) Briefing.--Not later than 1 year after submission of 
        the strategy required under paragraph (1), and annually 
        thereafter, the Secretary of State shall provide to the 
        Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee 
        on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a briefing 
        on the implementation of the strategy.

SEC. 1399DDDDD. PROMOTING DIGITALIZATION AND CYBERSECURITY IN THE 
              WESTERN HEMISPHERE.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the United 
States should support digitalization and expand cybersecurity 
cooperation in the Western Hemisphere to promote regional economic 
prosperity and security.
    (b) Promotion of Digitalization and Cybersecurity.--The Secretary 
of State, in coordination with the heads of other relevant Federal 
agencies, should promote digitalization and cybersecurity in the 
Western Hemisphere through collaborative efforts with democratic 
partners that--
            (1) promote digital connectivity and facilitate e-commerce 
        by expanding access to information and communications 
        technology (ICT) supply chains that adhere to high-quality 
        security and reliability standards, including--
                    (A) to open market access on a national treatment, 
                nondiscriminatory basis; and
                    (B) to strengthen the cybersecurity and cyber 
                resilience of partner countries;
            (2) advance the provision of digital government services 
        (e-government) that, to the greatest extent possible, promote 
        transparency, lower business costs, and expand citizens' access 
        to public services and public information; and
            (3) develop robust cybersecurity partnerships to--
                    (A) promote the inclusion of components and 
                architectures in information and communications 
                technology (ICT) supply chains from participants in 
                initiatives that adhere to high-quality security and 
                reliability standards;
                    (B) share best practices to mitigate cyber threats 
                to critical infrastructure from ICT architectures by 
                technology providers that supply equipment and services 
                covered under section 2 of the Secure and Trusted 
                Communications Networks Act of 2019 (47 U.S.C. 1601);
                    (C) effectively respond to cybersecurity threats, 
                including state-sponsored threats; and
                    (D) to strengthen resilience against cyberattacks 
                and cybercrime.

SEC. 1399EEEEE. PROMOTING ECONOMIC AND COMMERCIAL PARTNERSHIPS IN THE 
              WESTERN HEMISPHERE.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the United 
States should enhance economic and commercial ties with democratic 
partners to promote prosperity in the Western Hemisphere by modernizing 
and strengthening trade capacity-building and trade facilitation 
initiatives, encouraging market-based economic reforms that enable 
inclusive economic growth, strengthening labor and environmental 
standards, addressing economic disparities of women, and encouraging 
transparency and adherence to the rule of law in investment dealings.
    (b) In General.--The Secretary of State, in coordination with the 
United States Trade Representative, the Chief Executive Officer of the 
Development Finance Corporation, and the heads of other relevant 
Federal agencies, should support the improvement of economic conditions 
in the Western Hemisphere through collaborative efforts with democratic 
partners that--
            (1) facilitate a more open, transparent, and competitive 
        environment for United States businesses and promote robust and 
        comprehensive trade capacity-building and trade facilitation 
        by--
                    (A) reducing trade and nontariff barriers between 
                the countries in the region, establishing a mechanism 
                for pursuing Mutual Recognition Agreements and 
                Formalized Regulatory Cooperation Agreements in 
                priority sectors of the economy;
                    (B) establishing a forum for discussing and 
                evaluating technical and other assistance needs to help 
                establish streamlined ``single window'' processes to 
                facilitate movement of goods and common customs 
                arrangements and procedures to lower costs of goods in 
                transit and speed to destination;
                    (C) building relationships and exchanges between 
                relevant regulatory bodies in the United States and 
                democratic partners in the Western Hemisphere to 
                promote best practices and transparency in rulemaking, 
                implementation, and enforcement, and provide training 
                and assistance to help improve supply chain management 
                in the Western Hemisphere;
                    (D) establishing regional fora for identifying, 
                raising, and addressing supply chain management issues, 
                including infrastructure needs and strengthening of 
                investment rules and regulatory frameworks;
                    (E) establishing a dedicated program of trade 
                missions and reverse trade missions to increase 
                commercial contacts and ties between the United States 
                and Western Hemisphere partner countries; and
                    (F) strengthening labor and environmental standards 
                in the region;
            (2) establish frameworks or mechanisms to review and 
        address the long-term financial sustainability and national 
        security implications of foreign investments in strategic 
        sectors or services;
            (3) establish competitive and transparent infrastructure 
        project selection and procurement processes that promote 
        transparency, open competition, financial sustainability, and 
        robust adherence to global standards and norms; and
            (4) advance robust and comprehensive energy production and 
        integration, including through a more open, transparent, and 
        competitive environment for United States companies competing 
        in the Western Hemisphere, including by--
                    (A) facilitating further development of integrated 
                regional energy markets;
                    (B) improving management of grids, including 
                technical capability to ensure the functionality, safe 
                and responsible management, and quality of service of 
                electricity providers, carriers, and management and 
                distribution systems;
                    (C) facilitating private sector-led development of 
                reliable and affordable power generation capacity;
                    (D) establishing a process for surveying grid 
                capacity and management focused on identifying 
                electricity service efficiencies and establishing 
                cooperative mechanisms for providing technical 
                assistance for--
                            (i) grid management, power pricing, and 
                        tariff issues;
                            (ii) establishing and maintaining 
                        appropriate regulatory best practices; and
                            (iii) proposals to establish regional power 
                        grids for the purpose of promoting the sale of 
                        excess supply to consumers across borders;
                    (E) assessing the viability and effectiveness of 
                decentralizing power production and transmission and 
                building micro-grid power networks to improve, when 
                feasible, access to electricity, particularly in rural 
                and underserved communities where centralized power 
                grid connections may not be feasible in the short to 
                medium term; and
                    (F) exploring opportunities to partner with the 
                private sector and multilateral institutions, such as 
                the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank, 
                to promote universal access to reliable and affordable 
                electricity in the Western Hemisphere.

SEC. 1399FFFFF. PROMOTING TRANSPARENCY AND DEMOCRATIC GOVERNANCE IN THE 
              WESTERN HEMISPHERE.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the United 
States should support efforts to strengthen the capacity and legitimacy 
of democratic institutions and inclusive processes in the Western 
Hemisphere to promote a more transparent, democratic, and prosperous 
region.
    (b) In General.--The Secretary of State, in coordination with the 
Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development 
and heads of other relevant Federal agencies, should support 
transparent, accountable, and democratic governance in the Western 
Hemisphere through collaborative efforts with democratic partners 
that--
            (1) strengthen the capacity of national electoral 
        institutions to ensure free, fair, and transparent electoral 
        processes, including through pre-election assessment missions, 
        technical assistance, and independent local and international 
        election monitoring and observation missions;
            (2) enhance the capabilities of democratically elected 
        national legislatures, parliamentary bodies, and autonomous 
        regulatory institutions to conduct oversight;
            (3) strengthen the capacity of subnational government 
        institutions to govern in a transparent, accountable, and 
        democratic manner, including through training and technical 
        assistance;
            (4) combat corruption at local and national levels, 
        including through trainings, cooperation agreements, 
        initiatives aimed at dismantling corrupt networks, and 
        political support for bilateral or multilateral anticorruption 
        mechanisms that strengthen attorneys general and prosecutors' 
        offices;
            (5) strengthen the capacity of civil society to conduct 
        oversight of government institutions, build the capacity of 
        independent professional journalism, facilitate substantive 
        dialogue with government and the private sector to generate 
        issue-based policies, and mobilize local resources to carry out 
        such activities;
            (6) promote the meaningful and significant participation of 
        women in democratic processes, including in national and 
        subnational government and civil society; and
            (7) support the creation of procedures for the Organization 
        of American States (OAS) to create an annual forum for 
        democratically elected national legislatures from OAS member 
        States to discuss issues of hemispheric importance, as 
        expressed in section 4 of the Organization of American States 
        Legislative Engagement Act of 2020 (Public Law 116-343).

SEC. 1399GGGGG. INVESTMENT, TRADE, AND DEVELOPMENT IN AFRICA AND LATIN 
              AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN.

    (a) Strategy Required.--
            (1) In general.--The President shall establish a 
        comprehensive United States strategy for public and private 
        investment, trade, and development in Africa and Latin America 
        and the Caribbean.
            (2) Focus of strategy.--The strategy required by paragraph 
        (1) shall focus on increasing exports of United States goods 
        and services to Africa and Latin America and the Caribbean by 
        200 percent in real dollar value by the date that is 10 years 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (3) Consultations.--In developing the strategy required by 
        paragraph (1), the President shall consult with--
                    (A) Congress;
                    (B) each agency that is a member of the Trade 
                Promotion Coordinating Committee;
                    (C) the relevant multilateral development banks, in 
                coordination with the Secretary of the Treasury and the 
                respective United States Executive Directors of such 
                banks;
                    (D) each agency that participates in the Trade 
                Policy Staff Committee established;
                    (E) the President's Export Council;
                    (F) each of the development agencies;
                    (G) any other Federal agencies with responsibility 
                for export promotion or financing and development; and
                    (H) the private sector, including businesses, 
                nongovernmental organizations, and African and Latin 
                American and Caribbean diaspora groups.
            (4) Submission to appropriate congressional committees.--
                    (A) Strategy.--Not later than 200 days after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall 
                submit to Congress the strategy required by subsection 
                (a).
                    (B) Progress report.--Not later than 3 years after 
                the date of the enactment of this Act, the President 
                shall submit to Congress a report on the implementation 
                of the strategy required by paragraph (1).
    (b) Special Africa and Latin America and the Caribbean Export 
Strategy Coordinators.--The Secretary of Commerce shall designate an 
individual within the Department of Commerce to serve as Special Africa 
Export Strategy Coordinator and an individual within the Department of 
Commerce to serve as Special Latin America and the Caribbean Export 
Strategy Coordinator--
            (1) to oversee the development and implementation of the 
        strategy required by subsection (a);
            (2) to coordinate developing and implementing the strategy 
        with--
                    (A) the Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee;
                    (B) the Director General for the U.S. and Foreign 
                Commercial Service and the Assistant Secretary for 
                Global Markets;
                    (C) the Assistant United States Trade 
                Representative for African Affairs or the Assistant 
                United States Trade Representative for the Western 
                Hemisphere, as appropriate;
                    (D) the Assistant Secretary of State for African 
                Affairs or the Assistant Secretary of State for Western 
                Hemisphere Affairs, as appropriate;
                    (E) the Foreign Agricultural Service of the 
                Department of Agriculture;
                    (F) the Export-Import Bank of the United States;
                    (G) the United States International Development 
                Finance Corporation; and
                    (H) the development agencies; and
            (3) considering and reflecting the impact of promotion of 
        United States exports on the economy and employment 
        opportunities of importing country, with a view to improving 
        secure supply chains, avoiding economic disruptions, and 
        stabilizing economic growth in a trade and export strategy.
    (c) Trade Missions to Africa and Latin America and the Caribbean.--
It is the sense of Congress that, not later than one year after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce and other 
high-level officials of the United States Government with 
responsibility for export promotion, financing, and development should 
conduct joint trade missions to Africa and to Latin America and the 
Caribbean.
    (d) Training.--The President shall develop a plan--
            (1) to standardize the training received by United States 
        and Foreign Commercial Service officers, economic officers of 
        the Department of State, and economic officers of the United 
        States Agency for International Development with respect to the 
        programs and procedures of the Export-Import Bank of the United 
        States, the United States International Development Finance 
        Corporation, the Small Business Administration, and the United 
        States Trade and Development Agency; and
            (2) to ensure that, not later than one year after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act--
                    (A) all United States and Foreign Commercial 
                Service officers that are stationed overseas receive 
                the training described in paragraph (1); and
                    (B) in the case of a country to which no United 
                States and Foreign Commercial Service officer is 
                assigned, any economic officer of the Department of 
                State stationed in that country receives that training.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the 
                Committee on Finance, the Committee on Commerce, 
                Science, and Transportation, and the Committee on 
                Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee 
                on Ways and Means, and the Committee on Energy and 
                Commerce of the House of Representatives.
            (2) Development agencies.--The term ``development 
        agencies'' means the United States Department of State, the 
        United States Agency for International Development, the 
        Millennium Challenge Corporation, the United States 
        International Development Finance Corporation, the United 
        States Trade and Development Agency, the United States 
        Department of Agriculture, and relevant multilateral 
        development banks.
            (3) Multilateral development banks.--The term 
        ``multilateral development banks'' has the meaning given that 
        term in section 1701(c)(4) of the International Financial 
        Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262r(c)(4)) and includes the 
        African Development Foundation.
            (4) Trade policy staff committee.--The term ``Trade Policy 
        Staff Committee'' means the Trade Policy Staff Committee 
        established pursuant to section 2002.2 of title 15, Code of 
        Federal Regulations.
            (5) Trade promotion coordinating committee.--The term 
        ``Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee'' means the Trade 
        Promotion Coordinating Committee established under section 2312 
        of the Export Enhancement Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 4727).
            (6) United states and foreign commercial service.--The term 
        ``United States and Foreign Commercial Service'' means the 
        United States and Foreign Commercial Service established by 
        section 2301 of the Export Enhancement Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 
        4721).

SEC. 1399HHHHH. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON PRIORITIZING NOMINATION AND 
              CONFIRMATION OF QUALIFIED AMBASSADORS.

    It is the sense of Congress that it is critically important that 
both the President and the Senate play their respective roles to 
nominate and confirm qualified ambassadors as quickly as possible.

SEC. 1399IIIII. WESTERN HEMISPHERE DEFINED.

    In this subtitle, the term ``Western Hemisphere'' does not include 
Cuba, Nicaragua, or Venezuela.

SEC. 1399JJJJJ. REPORT ON EFFORTS TO CAPTURE AND DETAIN UNITED STATES 
              CITIZENS AS HOSTAGES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to the 
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on 
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on efforts by 
the Maduro regime of Venezuela to detain United States citizens and 
lawful permanent residents.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include, 
regarding the arrest, capture, detainment, and imprisonment of United 
States citizens and lawful permanent residents--
            (1) the names, positions, and institutional affiliation of 
        Venezuelan individuals, or those acting on their behalf, who 
        have engaged in such activities;
            (2) a description of any role played by transnational 
        criminal organizations, and an identification of such 
        organizations; and
            (3) where relevant, an assessment of whether and how United 
        States citizens and lawful permanent residents have been lured 
        to Venezuela.
    (c) Form.--The report required under subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but shall include a classified annex, 
which shall include a list of the total number of United States 
citizens and lawful permanent residents detained or imprisoned in 
Venezuela as of the date on which the report is submitted.

                TITLE XIV--COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION

SEC. 1401. COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION FUNDS.

    (a) Funding Allocation.--Of the $350,999,000 authorized to be 
appropriated to the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2024 in 
section 301 and made available by the funding table in division D for 
the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program 
established under section 1321 of the Department of Defense Cooperative 
Threat Reduction Act (50 U.S.C. 3711), the following amounts may be 
obligated for the purposes specified:
            (1) For strategic offensive arms elimination, $6,815,000.
            (2) For chemical weapons destruction, $16,400,000.
            (3) For global nuclear security, $19,406,000.
            (4) For cooperative biological engagement, $228,030,000.
            (5) For proliferation prevention, $46,324,000.
            (6) For activities designated as Other Assessments/
        Administrative Costs, $34,024,000.
    (b) Specification of Cooperative Threat Reduction Funds.--Funds 
appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
301 and made available by the funding table in division D for the 
Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program shall be 
available for obligation for fiscal years 2024, 2025, and 2026.

                     TITLE XV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

                     Subtitle A--Military Programs

SEC. 1501. WORKING CAPITAL FUNDS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2024 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for providing capital for working capital and 
revolving funds, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.

SEC. 1502. CHEMICAL AGENTS AND MUNITIONS DESTRUCTION, DEFENSE.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2024 
for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for Chemical Agents and 
Munitions Destruction, Defense, as specified in the funding table in 
section 4501.
    (b) Use.--Amounts authorized to be appropriated under subsection 
(a) are authorized for--
            (1) the destruction of lethal chemical agents and munitions 
        in accordance with section 1412 of the Department of Defense 
        Authorization Act, 1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521); and
            (2) the destruction of chemical warfare materiel of the 
        United States that is not covered by section 1412 of such Act.

SEC. 1503. DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE-WIDE.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2024 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide, 
as specified in the funding table in section 4501.

SEC. 1504. DEFENSE INSPECTOR GENERAL.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2024 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of 
Defense, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.

SEC. 1505. DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2024 
for the Defense Health Program for use of the Armed Forces and other 
activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for providing for 
the health of eligible beneficiaries, as specified in the funding table 
in section 4501.

                 Subtitle B--National Defense Stockpile

SEC. 1511. RECOVERY OF RARE EARTH ELEMENTS AND OTHER STRATEGIC AND 
              CRITICAL MATERIALS THROUGH END-OF-LIFE EQUIPMENT 
              RECYCLING.

    The Secretary of Defense shall establish policies and procedures--
            (1) to identify end-of-life equipment of the Department of 
        Defense that contains rare earth elements and other materials 
        determined pursuant to section 3(a) of the Strategic and 
        Critical Materials Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 98b(a)) to be 
        strategic and critical materials; and
            (2) to identify, establish, and implement policies and 
        procedures to recover such materials from such equipment for 
        the purposes of reuse by the Department of Defense.

SEC. 1512. IMPROVEMENTS TO STRATEGIC AND CRITICAL MATERIALS STOCK 
              PILING ACT.

    (a) Purposes.--Section 2 of the Strategic and Critical Materials 
Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 98a) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(d) To the maximum extent practicable and to reduce the reliance 
of the National Defense Stockpile program on appropriated funds, the 
National Defense Stockpile Manager shall seek to achieve positive cash 
flows from the recovery of strategic and critical materials pursuant to 
section 6(a)(5).''.
    (b) Stockpile Management.--Section 6 of such Act (50 U.S.C. 98e) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(5), by striking ``from excess'' and 
        all that follows and inserting ``from other Federal agencies, 
        either directly as materials or embedded in excess-to-need, 
        end-of-life items, or waste streams;'';
            (2) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``subsection (a)(5) 
        or (a)(6)'' and inserting ``subsection (a)(6) or (a)(7)'';
            (3) in subsection (d)(2), by striking ``subsection (a)(5)'' 
        and inserting ``subsection (a)(6)''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(g)(1) The National Defense Stockpile Manager shall establish a 
pilot program to use, to the maximum extent practicable, commercial 
best practices in the acquisition and disposal of strategic and 
critical materials for the stockpile.
    ``(2)(A) The Stockpile Manager shall brief the congressional 
defense committees (as defined in section 101(a) of title 10, United 
States Code)--
            ``(i) as soon as practicable after the establishment of the 
        pilot program under paragraph (1); and
            ``(ii) annually thereafter until the termination of the 
        pilot program under paragraph (3).
    ``(B) The briefing required by subparagraph (A)(i) shall address--
            ``(i) the commercial best practices selected for use under 
        the pilot program;
            ``(ii) how the Stockpile Manager determined which 
        commercial best practices to select; and
            ``(iii) the plan of the Stockpile Manager for using such 
        practices.
    ``(C) Each briefing required by subparagraph (A)(ii) shall provide 
a summary of--
            ``(i) how the Stockpile Manager has used commercial best 
        practices under the pilot program during the year preceding the 
        briefing;
            ``(ii) how many times the Stockpile Manager has used such 
        practices;
            ``(iii) the outcome of each use of such practices; and
            ``(iv) any savings achieved or lessons learned as a result 
        of the use of such practices.
    ``(3) The pilot program established under paragraph (1) shall 
terminate effective on the date that is 5 years after the date of the 
enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2024.
    ``(h) Unless otherwise necessary for national defense, the National 
Defense Stockpile Manager shall implement recovery programs under 
subsection (a)(5) to be cash flow positive.''.
    (c) Development and Conservation of Reliable Sources.--
            (1) In general.--Section 15 of such Act (50 U.S.C. 98h-6) 
        is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 15. DEVELOPMENT AND CONSERVATION OF RELIABLE SOURCES.

    ``(a) Duties.--Subject to subsection (c), the National Defense 
Stockpile Manager shall encourage the development and appropriate 
conservation of reliable sources of strategic and critical materials--
            ``(1) by purchasing, or making a commitment to purchase, 
        strategic and critical materials from reliable sources when 
        such materials are needed for the stockpile;
            ``(2) by contracting with facilities located in and owned 
        and controlled by reliable sources, or making a commitment to 
        contract with such facilities, for the processing or refining 
        of strategic and critical materials in the stockpile when 
        processing or refining is necessary to convert such materials 
        into a form more suitable for storage or disposition or meeting 
        stockpile requirements;
            ``(3) by qualifying facilities located in and owned and 
        controlled by reliable sources, or qualifying strategic and 
        critical materials produced by such facilities, to meet 
        stockpile requirements;
            ``(4) by contracting with facilities located in and owned 
        and controlled by reliable sources to recycle strategic and 
        critical materials to meet stockpile requirements or increase 
        the balance of the National Defense Stockpile Transaction Fund 
        under section 9; and
            ``(5) by entering into an agreement to co-fund a bankable 
        feasibility study for a project for the development of 
        strategic and critical materials located in and owned and 
        controlled by a reliable source, if the agreement--
                    ``(A) limits the liability of the stockpile to not 
                more than the total funding provided by the Federal 
                Government;
                    ``(B) limits the funding contribution of the 
                Federal Government to not more than 50 percent of the 
                cost of the bankable feasibility study; and
                    ``(C) does not obligate the Federal Government to 
                purchase strategic and critical materials from the 
                reliable source.
    ``(b) Additional Authorities.--
            ``(1) Extended contracting authority.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term of a contract or 
                commitment made under subsection (a) may not exceed ten 
                years.
                    ``(B) Preexisting contracts.--A contract entered 
                into before the date of the enactment of the National 
                Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 for a 
                term of more than ten years may be extended, on or 
                after such date of enactment, for a total of not more 
                than an additional ten years pursuant to any option or 
                options set forth in the contract.
            ``(2) Matters relating to co-funding of bankable 
        feasibility studies.--To the extent authorized by Congress 
        pursuant to the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4501 
        et seq.) and determined to be required by the President 
        pursuant to that Act, the National Defense Stockpile Manager 
        may provide for loans or procure debt issued by other entities 
        to carry out a project for the development of strategic and 
        critical materials under subsection (a)(5).
    ``(c) Proposed Transactions Included in Annual Materials Plan.--
Descriptions of proposed transactions under subsection (a) shall be 
included in the Annual Materials and Operations Plan. Changes to any 
such transaction, or the addition of a transaction not included in such 
plan, shall be made in accordance with section 5.
    ``(d) Availability of Funds.--The authority of the National Defense 
Stockpile Manager to enter into obligations under this section is 
effective for any fiscal year only to the extent that funds in the 
National Defense Stockpile Transaction Fund under section 9 are 
adequate to meet such obligations.
    ``(e) Bankable Feasibility Study Defined.--In this section, the 
term `bankable feasibility study' means a comprehensive technical and 
economic study--
            ``(1) of the selected development option for a strategic 
        and critical materials project that includes appropriately 
        detailed assessments of realistically assumed extraction, 
        processing, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, 
        environmental, social, and governmental considerations and any 
        other relevant operational factors and detailed financial 
        analysis, that are necessary to demonstrate at the time of 
        reporting that production is reasonably justified; and
            ``(2) that may reasonably serve as the basis for a final 
        decision by a proponent of a project or financial institution 
        to proceed with, or finance, the development of the project.''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--
                    (A) Materials research and development.--Section 
                8(a) of such Act (50 U.S.C. 98g(a)) is amended--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ``or 
                        in its territories or possessions,'' and 
                        inserting ``its territories or possessions, or 
                        in a reliable source''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ``in 
                        order to--'' and all that follows through 
                        ``mineral products.'' and inserting the 
                        following: ``in order to develop new sources of 
                        strategic and critical materials, develop 
                        substitutes, or conserve domestic sources and 
                        reliable sources of supply for such strategic 
                        and critical materials.''.
                    (B) Definitions.--Section 12 of such Act (50 U.S.C. 
                98h-3) is amended by striking paragraph (3) and 
                inserting the following new paragraph (3):
                            ``(i) The term `reliable source' mean a 
                        citizen or business entity of--
                                    ``(I) the United States or any 
                                territory or possession of the United 
                                States;
                                    ``(II) a country of the national 
                                technology and industrial base, as 
                                defined in section 4801 of title 10, 
                                United States Code; or
                                    ``(III) a qualifying country, as 
                                defined in section 225.003 of the 
                                Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation 
                                Supplement.''.
    (d) Technical Amendment.--Subsection (e) of section 10 of such Act 
(50 U.S.C. 98h-1) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(e) Application of Provisions Relating to Federal Advisory 
Committees.--Section 1013 of title 5, United States Code, shall not 
apply to the Board.''.

SEC. 1513. AUTHORITY TO DISPOSE OF MATERIALS FROM THE NATIONAL DEFENSE 
              STOCKPILE.

    Pursuant to section 5(b) of the Strategic and Critical Materials 
Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 98d(b)), the National Defense Stockpile 
Manager may dispose of the following materials contained in the 
National Defense Stockpile in the following quantities:
            (1) 8 short tons of beryllium.
            (2) 154,043 short dry tons of metallurgical grade manganese 
        ore.
            (3) 5,000 kilograms of germanium.
            (4) 91,413 pounds of pan-based carbon fibers.
            (5) Not more than 1,000 short tons of materials transferred 
        from another department or agency of the United States to the 
        National Defense Stockpile under section 4(b) of such Act (50 
        U.S.C. 98c(b)) that the National Defense Stockpile Manager 
        determines is no longer required for the Stockpile (in addition 
        to any amount of such materials previously authorized for 
        disposal).

SEC. 1514. BEGINNING BALANCES OF THE NATIONAL DEFENSE STOCKPILE 
              TRANSACTION FUND FOR AUDIT PURPOSES.

    For purposes of an audit conducted under chapter 9A of title 10, 
United States Code, of the National Defense Stockpile Transaction Fund 
established by section 9 of the Strategic and Critical Materials Stock 
Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 98h)--
            (1) the ending balance of $313,633,491.15 reported in the 
        Central Accounting Reporting System of the Department of the 
        Treasury for September 30, 2021, is the Fund Balance with 
        Treasury ending balance on that date;
            (2) the Total Actual Resources-Collected opening balance 
        for October 1, 2021, for United States Standard General Ledger 
        Account 420100 is $314,548,154.42, as recorded in official 
        accounting records; and
            (3) the Unapportioned-Unexpired Authority ending balance 
        for September 30, 2021, for United States Standard General 
        Ledger Account 445000 is $216,976,300.69, as recorded in 
        official accounting records.

                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

SEC. 1521. AUTHORITY FOR TRANSFER OF FUNDS TO JOINT DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE-DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL FACILITY 
              DEMONSTRATION FUND FOR CAPTAIN JAMES A. LOVELL HEALTH 
              CARE CENTER, ILLINOIS.

    (a) Authority for Transfer of Funds.--Of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated by section 1405 and available for the Defense Health 
Program for operation and maintenance, $172,000,000 may be transferred 
by the Secretary of Defense to the Joint Department of Defense-
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund 
established by subsection (a)(1) of section 1704 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 
Stat. 2571).
    (b) Treatment of Transferred Funds.--For purposes of subsection 
(a)(2) of such section 1704, any funds transferred under subsection (a) 
shall be treated as amounts authorized and appropriated specifically 
for the purpose of such a transfer.
    (c) Use of Transferred Funds.--For purposes of subsection (b) of 
such section 1704, facility operations for which funds transferred 
under subsection (a) may be used are operations of the Captain James A. 
Lovell Federal Health Care Center, consisting of the North Chicago 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, the Navy Ambulatory Care Center, and 
supporting facilities designated as a combined Federal medical facility 
under an operational agreement covered by section 706 of the Duncan 
Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public 
Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500).

SEC. 1522. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT 
              HOME.

    There is hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2024 
from the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund the sum of $77,000,000 
for the operation of the Armed Forces Retirement Home.

SEC. 1523. MODIFICATION OF LEASING AUTHORITY OF ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT 
              HOME.

    (a) Agreements; Approval and Notification.--Section 1511(i) of the 
Armed Forces Retirement Home Act of 1991 (24 U.S.C. 411(i)) is amended 
by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
    ``(9) Before entering into a lease described in this subsection, 
the Chief Operating Officer may enter into an agreement with a 
potential lessee providing for a period of exclusivity, access, study, 
or for similar purposes. The agreement shall provide for the payment 
(in cash or in kind) by the potential lessee of consideration for the 
agreement unless the Chief Operating Officer determines that payment of 
consideration will not promote the purpose and financial stability of 
the Retirement Home or be in the public interest.
    ``(10) No further approval by the Secretary of Defense, nor 
notification or report to Congress, shall be required for subordinate 
leases under this subsection unless the facts or terms of the original 
lease have materially changed.''.
    (b) Administration of Funds.--Section 1511(i)(7) of the Armed 
Forces Retirement Home Act of 1991 (24 U.S.C. 411(i)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``an agreement with a potential lessee 
        or'' after ``The proceeds from''; and
            (2) by striking the period at the end and inserting ``, to 
        remain available for obligation and expenditure to finance 
        expenses of the Retirement Home related to the formation and 
        administration of agreements and leases entered into under the 
        provisions of this subsection.''.

   TITLE XVI--SPACE ACTIVITIES, STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, AND INTELLIGENCE 
                                MATTERS

                      Subtitle A--Space Activities

SEC. 1601. ACQUISITION STRATEGY FOR PHASE 3 OF THE NATIONAL SECURITY 
              SPACE LAUNCH PROGRAM.

    (a) Fiscal Years 2025 Through 2029.--With respect to the 
acquisition strategy for Phase 3 of the National Security Space Launch 
program, for fiscal years 2025 through 2029, the Secretary of Defense 
shall establish--
            (1) a low-risk launch program, to be known as ``Lane One'', 
        that consists of an indefinite delivery indefinite quantity 
        acquisition approach based on not fewer than 20 launches so as 
        to encourage the capabilities of new entrants that have 
        conducted not fewer than one previous launch; and
            (2) a launch program, similar to the Phase Two National 
        Security Assured Access Launch program, to be known as ``Lane 
        Two'', that meets all National Security Space Launch 
        requirements, with full mission assurance, based on not fewer 
        than 35 launches.
    (b) Fiscal Years 2027 Through 2029.--With respect to the 
acquisition strategy for Phase 3 of the National Security Space Launch 
program, for fiscal years 2027 through 2029, the Secretary of Defense 
shall establish an accession launch program, to be known as ``Lane Two 
A'', using the requirements of the program established under subsection 
(a)(2) based on five launches of GPS Block IIIF satellites or 
satellites the launches of which are complex, high-energy missions.

SEC. 1602. INITIAL OPERATING CAPABILITY FOR ADVANCED TRACKING AND 
              LAUNCH ANALYSIS SYSTEM AND SYSTEM-LEVEL REVIEW.

    (a) Advanced Tracking and Launch Analysis System.--
            (1) Date for initial operating capability.--Not later than 
        90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary of the Air Force shall--
                    (A) designate a date for the delivery of the 
                initial operating capability for the Advanced Tracking 
                and Launch Analysis System (ATLAS); and
                    (B) notify the congressional defense committees of 
                such date.
            (2) Effect of failure to timely deliver.--If the initial 
        operating capability for ATLAS is not achieved by the date 
        designated under paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary shall--
                    (A) terminate the ATLAS program;
                    (B) designate an alternative program option that 
                provides a comparable capability to the capability 
                intended to be provided by ATLAS; and
                    (C) not later than 30 days after such date, notify 
                the congressional defense committees with respect to--
                            (i) such termination;
                            (ii) the designated alternative program 
                        option;
                            (iii) the justification for selecting such 
                        option; and
                            (iv) the estimated time and total costs to 
                        completion of such option.
    (b) System-level Review.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall enter into a contract 
        with a federally funded research and development center under 
        which the federally funded research and development center 
        shall, not less frequently than every 2 years through 2032, 
        conduct a review of the space command and control software 
        acquisition program to assess the ability of such program to 
        build a software framework that integrates multiple aspects of 
        space operations to enable the warfighter to command and 
        control space assets in a time of conflict.
            (2) Elements.--Each review under paragraph (1) shall 
        consider the integration into such software framework of the 
        following:
                    (A) Sensor data applicable to the command and 
                control of space assets.
                    (B) Information contained in the Unified Data 
                Library relating to the number and location of space 
                objects.
                    (C) The ability to control space assets based on 
                such data and information.
                    (D) Any other matter the Secretary considers 
                necessary.
            (3) Briefing.--The Secretary shall provide the 
        congressional defense committees with a briefing on the 
        findings of each review under paragraph (1), including--
                    (A) an assessment of any deficiency identified in 
                the review; and
                    (B) a plan to address such deficiency in a timely 
                manner.

SEC. 1603. DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE RESPONSIBILITY FOR SPACE-BASED 
              GROUND AND AIRBORNE MOVING TARGET INDICATION.

    (a) In General.--The Department of the Air Force shall be 
responsible for--
            (1) serving as the final authority for the tasking of 
        space-based ground and airborne moving target indication 
        systems that--
                    (A) are primarily or fully funded by the Department 
                of Defense; and
                    (B) provide near real-time, direct support to 
                satisfy theater operations; and
            (2) presenting such capability to the combatant commands to 
        accomplish the warfighting missions of the combatant commands 
        under the Unified Command Plan.
    (b) Milestone Development Authority.--Subject to section 4204 of 
title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of the Air Force, in 
consultation with the Director of National Intelligence, shall be the 
Milestone A approval (as defined in section 4211 of such title) 
decision authority for space-related acquisition programs for ground 
and airborne moving target indication collection assets described in 
subsection (a) that are primarily or fully funded within the Military 
Intelligence Program.

SEC. 1604. PRINCIPAL MILITARY DEPUTY FOR SPACE ACQUISITION AND 
              INTEGRATION.

    Section 9016(b)(6) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as subparagraph (C); 
        and
            (2) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following new 
        subparagraph (B):
            ``(B) The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space 
        Acquisition and Integration shall have a Principle Military 
        Deputy for Space Acquisition and Integration, who shall be an 
        officer of the Space Force on active duty. The Principal 
        Military Deputy for Space Acquisition and Integration shall be 
        appointed from among officers who have significant experience 
        in the areas of acquisition and program management. The 
        position of Principal Military Deputy for Space Acquisition and 
        Integration shall be designated as a critical acquisition 
        position under section 1731 of this title. In the event of a 
        vacancy in the position of Assistant Secretary of the Air Force 
        for Space Acquisition and Integration, the Principal Military 
        Deputy for Space Acquisition and Integration may serve as 
        Acting Assistant Secretary for Space Acquisition and 
        Integration for a period of not more than one year.''.

SEC. 1605. USE OF MIDDLE TIER ACQUISITION AUTHORITY FOR SPACE 
              DEVELOPMENT AGENCY ACQUISITION PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Director of the Space Development Agency shall 
use the middle tier of acquisition authority, consistent with section 
804 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
(Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 3201 note prec.) and Department of 
Defense Instruction 5000.80, entitled ``Operation of the Middle Tier of 
Acquisition (MTA)'' and issued on December 30, 2019 (or a successor 
instruction), for the rapid fielding of satellites and associated 
systems for Tranche 1, Tranche 2, and Tranche 3 of the proliferated 
warfighter space architecture of the Space Development Agency.
    (b) Rapid Prototyping and Fielding.--Any tranche of satellites or 
associated systems developed and fielded under subsection (a) shall 
have a level of maturity that allows such satellites or systems to be 
rapidly prototyped within an acquisition program or rapidly fielded 
within five years of the development of an approved requirement.
    (c) Designation as Major Capability Acquisition.--
            (1) In general.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment may designate a tranche described 
        in subsection (a) as a major capability acquisition program, 
        consistent with Department of Defense Instruction 5000.80, 
        entitled ``Operation of the Middle Tier of Acquisition (MTA)'' 
        and issued on December 30, 2019 (or a successor instruction).
            (2) Notice to congress.--Not later than 90 days before the 
        date on which a designation under paragraph (1) is made, the 
        Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment 
        shall notify the congressional defense committees of the intent 
        to so designate and provide a justification for such 
        designation.

SEC. 1606. SPECIAL AUTHORITY FOR PROVISION OF COMMERCIAL SPACE LAUNCH 
              SUPPORT SERVICES.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 135 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 2276 the following new section:
``Sec. 2276a. Special authority for provision of commercial space 
              launch support services
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of a military department, pursuant 
to the authority provided by this section and any other provision of 
law, may support Federal and commercial space launch capacity on any 
domestic real property under the control of the Secretary through the 
provision of space launch support services.
    ``(b) Provision of Launch Equipment and Services to Commercial 
Entities.--
            ``(1) Agreement authority.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary concerned may 
                enter into a contract, or conduct any other 
                transaction, with a commercial entity that intends to 
                conduct space launch activities on a military 
                installation under the jurisdiction of the Secretary, 
                including a contract or other transaction for the 
                provision of supplies, services, equipment, and 
                construction needed for commercial space launch.
                    ``(B) Nondelegation.--The Secretary may not 
                delegate the authority provided in subparagraph (A).
            ``(2) Agreement costs.--
                    ``(A) Direct costs.--A contract entered into, or a 
                transaction conducted, under paragraph (1) shall 
                include a provision that requires the commercial entity 
                entering into the contract or conducting the 
                transaction to reimburse the Department of Defense for 
                all direct costs to the United States that are 
                associated with the goods, services, and equipment 
                provided to the commercial entity under the contract or 
                transaction.
                    ``(B) Indirect costs.--A contract entered into, or 
                a transaction conducted, under paragraph (1) may--
                            ``(i) include a provision that requires the 
                        commercial entity to reimburse the Department 
                        of Defense for such indirect costs as the 
                        Secretary concerned considers to be fair and 
                        reasonable; and
                            ``(ii) provide for the recovery of indirect 
                        costs through establishment of a rate, fixed 
                        price, or similar mechanism the Secretary 
                        concerned considers to be fair and reasonable.
            ``(3) Retention of funds collected from commercial users.--
        Amounts collected from a commercial entity under paragraph (2) 
        shall be credited to the appropriation accounts under which the 
        costs associated with the contract (direct and indirect) were 
        incurred.
            ``(4) Regulations.--The Secretary shall promulgate 
        regulations to carry out this subsection.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Space launch.--The term `space launch' includes all 
        activities, supplies, equipment, facilities, and services 
        supporting launch preparation, launch, reentry, recovery, and 
        other launch-related activities for the payload and the space 
        transportation vehicle.
            ``(2) Commercial entity; commercial.--The terms `commercial 
        entity' and `commercial' means a non-Federal entity organized 
        under the laws of the United States or of any jurisdiction 
        within the United States.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 135 of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 2276 the following:

``2276a. Special authority for provision of commercial space launch 
                            support services.''.

SEC. 1607. TREATMENT OF POSITIONING, NAVIGATION, AND TIMING RESILIENCY, 
              MODIFICATIONS, AND IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAM AS ACQUISITION 
              CATEGORY 1D PROGRAM.

    The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment 
shall treat the Positioning, Navigation, and Timing Resiliency, 
Modifications, and Improvements program of the Air Force (Program 
Element 0604201F) as an acquisition category 1D program, and the 
authority to manage such program may not be delegated.

SEC. 1608. BRIEFING ON CLASSIFICATION PRACTICES AND FOREIGN DISCLOSURE 
              POLICIES REQUIRED FOR COMBINED SPACE OPERATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Director of 
National Intelligence shall provide a briefing to the appropriate 
committees of Congress on the classification practices and foreign 
disclosure policies required to enable the development and conduct of 
combined space operations among the following countries:
            (1) Australia.
            (2) Canada.
            (3) France.
            (4) Germany.
            (5) New Zealand.
            (6) The United Kingdom.
            (7) The United States.
            (8) Any other ally or partner country, as determined by the 
        Secretary of Defense or the Director of National Intelligence.
    (b) Elements.--The briefing required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) The military and national intelligence information 
        required to be shared with the countries described in 
        subsection (a) so as to enable the development and conduct 
        combined space operations.
            (2) The policy, organizational, or other barriers that 
        currently prevent such information sharing for combined space 
        operations.
            (3) The actions being taken by the Department of Defense 
        and the intelligence community (as defined in section 3 of the 
        National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003)) to remove the 
        barriers to such information sharing, and the timeline for 
        implementation of such actions.
            (4) Any statutory changes required to remove such barriers.
            (5) Any other matter, as determined by the Secretary of 
        Defense or the Director of National Intelligence.
    (c) Implementation Update.--Not later than 270 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Director 
of National Intelligence shall provide a briefing to the appropriate 
committees of Congress on the implementation of the actions described 
in subsection (b)(3).
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress.--In this section, the term 
``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the congressional defense committees; and
            (2) the congressional intelligence committees (as defined 
        in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
        3003)).

SEC. 1609. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF CERTAIN FUNDS RELATING TO 
              SELECTION OF PERMANENT LOCATION FOR HEADQUARTERS OF 
              UNITED STATES SPACE COMMAND.

    (a) Limitation on Availability of Funds for Military Construction 
Projects.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act 
or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2024 for the Air Force may 
be obligated or expended for a military construction project (as 
described in section 2801(b) of title 10, United States Code) for the 
construction or modification of facilities for temporary or permanent 
use by the United States Space Command for headquarters operations 
until the report required under subsection (c) is submitted.
    (b) Limitation on Availability of Funds for Travel Expenditures.--
Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise 
made available for fiscal year 2024 to the Office of the Secretary of 
the Air Force for travel expenditures, not more than 50 percent may be 
obligated or expended until the report required under subsection (c) is 
submitted.
    (c) Report.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the justification for the 
selection of a permanent location for headquarters of the United States 
Space Command.

                       Subtitle B--Nuclear Forces

SEC. 1611. PROHIBITION ON REDUCTION OF THE INTERCONTINENTAL BALLISTIC 
              MISSILES OF THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) Prohibition.--Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the 
funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2024 
for the Department of Defense may be obligated or expended for the 
following, and the Department may not otherwise take any action to do 
the following:
            (1) Reduce, or prepare to reduce, the responsiveness or 
        alert level of the intercontinental ballistic missiles of the 
        United States.
            (2) Reduce, or prepare to reduce, the quantity of deployed 
        intercontinental ballistic missiles of the United States to a 
        number less than 400.
    (b) Exception.--The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply 
to any of the following activities:
            (1) The maintenance, sustainment, or replacement of 
        intercontinental ballistic missiles.
            (2) Ensuring the safety, security, or reliability of 
        intercontinental ballistic missiles.

SEC. 1612. SENTINEL INTERCONTINENTAL BALLISTIC MISSILE PROGRAM SILO 
              ACTIVITY.

    The LGM-35A Sentinel intercontinental ballistic missile program 
shall refurbish and make operable not fewer than 150 silos for 
intercontinental ballistic missiles at each of the following locations:
            (1) Francis E. Warren Air Force Base, Laramie County, 
        Wyoming.
            (2) Malmstrom Air Force Base, Cascade County, Montana.
            (3) Minot Air Force Base, Ward County, North Dakota.

SEC. 1613. MATTERS RELATING TO THE ACQUISITION AND DEPLOYMENT OF THE 
              SENTINEL INTERCONTINENTAL BALLISTIC MISSILE WEAPON 
              SYSTEM.

    (a) Authority for Multi-year Procurement.--Subject to section 3501 
of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of the Air Force may 
enter into one or more multi-year contracts for the procurement of up 
to 659 Sentinel intercontinental ballistic missiles and for subsystems 
associated with such missiles.
    (b) Authority for Advance Procurement.--The Secretary of the Air 
Force may enter into one or more contracts, beginning in fiscal year 
2024, for advance procurement associated with the Sentinel 
intercontinental ballistic missiles for which authorization to enter 
into a multi-year procurement contract is provided under subsection 
(a), and for subsystems associated with such missiles in economic order 
quantities when cost savings are achievable.
    (c) Condition for Out-year Contract Payments.--A contract entered 
into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the 
United States to make a payment under the contract for a fiscal year 
after fiscal year 2024 is subject to the availability of appropriations 
or funds for that purpose for such later fiscal year.
    (d) Mandatory Inclusion of Pre-priced Option in Certain 
Circumstances.--
            (1) In general.--If the total base quantity of Sentinel 
        intercontinental ballistic missiles to be procured through all 
        contracts entered into under subsection (a) is less than 659, 
        the Secretary of the Air Force shall ensure that one or more of 
        the contracts includes a pre-priced option for the procurement 
        of additional Sentinel intercontinental ballistic missiles such 
        that the sum of such base quantity and the number of such 
        missiles that may be procured through the exercise of such 
        options is equal to 659 missiles.
            (2) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Base quantity.--The term ``base quantity'' 
                means the quantity of Sentinel intercontinental 
                ballistic missiles to be procured under a contract 
                entered into under subsection (a), excluding any 
                quantity of such missiles that may be procured through 
                the exercise of an option that may be part of such 
                contract.
                    (B) Pre-priced option.--The term ``pre-priced 
                option'' means a contract option for a contract entered 
                into under subsection (a) that, if exercised, would 
                allow the Secretary of the Air Force to procure a 
                quantity of intercontinental ballistic missiles at a 
                predetermined price specified in such contract.
    (e) Limitation.--The Secretary of the Air Force may not modify a 
contract entered into under subsection (a) if the modification would 
increase the per unit price of the Sentinel intercontinental ballistic 
missiles by more than 10 percent above the target per unit price 
specified in the original contract for such missiles under subsection 
(a).
    (f) Modifications to the Intercontinental Ballistic Missile Site 
Activation Task Force.--Section 1638 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting ``, who shall report 
        directly to the Commander of Air Force Global Strike Command'' 
        after ``Modernization''; and
            (2) by striking subsection (d)(1) and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(1) Weapon system.--For purposes of nomenclature and 
        acquisition life cycle activities ranging from development 
        through sustainment and demilitarization, each wing level 
        configuration of the LGM-35A Sentinel intercontinental 
        ballistic missile shall be a weapon system.''.

SEC. 1614. PLAN FOR DECREASING THE TIME TO UPLOAD ADDITIONAL WARHEADS 
              TO THE INTERCONTINENTAL BALLISTIC MISSILE FLEET.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Air Force, in coordination 
with the Commander of the United States Strategic Command, shall 
develop a plan to decrease the amount of time required to upload 
additional warheads to the intercontinental ballistic missile force.
    (b) Elements.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) An assessment of the storage capacity of weapons 
        storage areas and any weapons generation facilities at covered 
        bases, including the capacity of each covered base to store 
        additional warheads.
            (2) An assessment of the current nuclear warhead 
        transportation capacity of the National Nuclear Security 
        Administration and associated timelines for transporting 
        additional nuclear warheads to covered bases.
            (3) An evaluation of the capacity of the maintenance 
        squadrons and security forces at covered bases and the 
        associated timelines for adding warheads to the 
        intercontinental ballistic missile force.
            (4) An identification of actions that would address any 
        identified limitations and increase the readiness of the 
        intercontinental ballistic missile force to upload additional 
        warheads.
            (5) An evaluation of courses of actions to upload 
        additional warheads to a portion of the intercontinental 
        ballistic missile force.
            (6) An assessment of the feasibility and advisability of 
        initiating immediate deployment of W78 warheads to a single 
        wing of the intercontinental ballistic missile force as a hedge 
        against delay of the LGM-35A Sentinel intercontinental 
        ballistic missile.
            (7) A funding plan for carrying out actions identified in 
        paragraphs (4) and (5).
    (c) Submission to Congress.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force and the 
Commander of the United States Strategic Command shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees the plan required by subsection (a).
    (d) Form.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (e) Briefing.--Not later than 30 days after the submission of the 
plan required by subsection (a), the Secretary of the Air Force and the 
Commander of the United States Strategic Command shall brief the 
congressional defense committees on the actions being pursued to 
implement the plan.
    (f) Covered Base Defined.--The term ``covered base'' means the 
following:
            (1) Francis E. Warren Air Force Base, Laramie County, 
        Wyoming.
            (2) Malmstrom Air Force Base, Cascade County, Montana.
            (3) Minot Air Force Base, Ward County, North Dakota.

SEC. 1615. TASKING AND OVERSIGHT AUTHORITY WITH RESPECT TO 
              INTERCONTINENTAL BALLISTIC MISSILE SITE ACTIVATION TASK 
              FORCE FOR SENTINEL PROGRAM.

    Section 1638 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263) is amended by--
            (1) redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f); and
            (2) inserting after subsection (d), the following new 
        subsection (e):
    ``(e) Delegation of Authority.--The Secretary of Defense shall--
            ``(1) not later than 120 days after the date of the 
        enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2024, delegate to the Commander of the Air Force Global 
        Strike Command such tasking and oversight authorities, as the 
        Secretary considers necessary, with respect to other components 
        of the Department of Defense participating in the Task Force; 
        and
            ``(2) not later than 30 days after the date of such 
        delegation of authority, notify the congressional defense 
        committees of the delegation.''.

SEC. 1616. LONG-TERM SUSTAINMENT OF SENTINEL ICBM GUIDANCE SYSTEM.

    (a) In General.--Prior to issuing a Milestone C decision for the 
program to develop the LGM-35A Sentinel intercontinental ballistic 
missile system (referred to in this section as the ``Sentinel''), the 
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall 
certify to the congressional defense committees that there is a long-
term capability in place to maintain and modernize the guidance system 
of the Sentinel over the full life cycle of the Sentinel.
    (b) Certification Elements.--The certification described in 
subsection (a) shall include a list of capabilities to maintain and 
advance--
            (1) accelerometers;
            (2) gyroscopes;
            (3) guidance computers;
            (4) specialized mechanical and retaining assemblies;
            (5) test equipment; and
            (6) such other components to ensure the guidance system 
        will be maintained and modernized over the life of the 
        Sentinel.

SEC. 1617. SENSE OF SENATE ON POLARIS SALES AGREEMENT.

    (a) Findings.--The Senate finds the following:
            (1) On December 21, 1962, President John F. Kennedy and 
        Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Harold Macmillan met in 
        Nassau, Bahamas, and issued a joint statement (commonly 
        referred to as the ``Statement on Nuclear Defense Systems''), 
        agreeing that the United States would make Polaris missiles 
        available on a continuing basis to the United Kingdom for use 
        in submarines.
            (2) On April 6, 1963, Secretary of State Dean Rusk and Her 
        Majesty's Ambassador to the United States David Ormsby-Gore 
        signed the Polaris Sales Agreement, reaffirming the Statement 
        on Nuclear Defense Systems and agreeing that the United States 
        Government shall provide and the Government of the United 
        Kingdom shall purchase from the United States Government 
        Polaris missiles, equipment, and supporting services.
            (3) The HMS Resolution launched the first Polaris missile 
        of the United Kingdom on February 15, 1968, and, in 1969, 
        commenced the first strategic deterrent patrol for the United 
        Kingdom, initiating a continuous at-sea deterrent posture for 
        the United Kingdom that remains in effect.
            (4) The Polaris Sales Agreement was amended to include the 
        Trident II (D5) strategic weapon system on October 19, 1982, in 
        Washington, D.C., through an exchange of notes between 
        Secretary of State Jonathan Howe and Her Majesty's Ambassador 
        to the United States Oliver Wright.
            (5) Through an exchange of letters in 2008 between the 
        Secretary of Defense the Honorable Robert Gates and the 
        Secretary of State for Defence of the United Kingdom the Right 
        Honorable Desmond Browne and under the auspices of the Polaris 
        Sales Agreement, the United States Government and the 
        Government of the United Kingdom agreed to continue cooperation 
        to design a common missile compartment for the follow-on 
        ballistic missile submarines of each nation.
    (b) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that the 
Senate--
            (1) recognizes the 60th anniversary of the Polaris Sales 
        Agreement between the United States and the United Kingdom of 
        Great Britain and Northern Ireland;
            (2) congratulates the Royal Navy for steadfastly 
        maintaining the Continuous At-Sea Deterrent;
            (3) Recognizes the important contribution of the Continuous 
        At-Sea Deterrent to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization;
            (4) reaffirms that the United Kingdom is a valued and 
        special ally of the United States; and
            (5) looks forward to continuing and strengthening the 
        shared commitment of the United States and the United Kingdom 
        to sustain submarine-based strategic deterrents well into the 
        future.

SEC. 1618. MATTERS RELATING TO THE NUCLEAR-ARMED SEA-LAUNCHED CRUISE 
              MISSILE.

    (a) Program Treatment.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Sustainment shall--
            (1) establish a program for the development of a nuclear-
        armed, sea-launched cruise missile capability;
            (2) designate such program as an acquisition category 1D 
        program, to be managed consistent with the provisions of 
        Department of Defense Instruction 5000.85 (relating to major 
        capability acquisition);
            (3) initiate a nuclear weapon project for the W80-4 ALT 
        warhead, at phase 6.2 of the phase 6.X process (relating to 
        feasibility study and down select), to align with the program 
        described in paragraph (1);
            (4) submit to the National Nuclear Security Administration 
        a formal request, through the Nuclear Weapons Council, for 
        participation in and support for the W80-4 ALT warhead project; 
        and
            (5) designate the Department of the Navy as the military 
        department to lead the W80-4 ALT nuclear weapon program for the 
        Department of Defense.
    (b) Initial Operational Capability.--The Secretary of Defense and 
the Administrator for Nuclear Security shall take such actions as 
necessary to ensure the program described in subsection (a) achieves 
initial operational capability, as defined jointly by the Secretary of 
the Navy and the Commander of United States Strategic Command, by not 
later than fiscal year 2035.
    (c) Limitation.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
Sustainment may not approve a Full Rate Production Decision or 
authorize Full Scale Production (as those terms are defined in the 
memorandum of the Nuclear Weapons Council entitled ``Procedural 
Guidelines for the Phase 6.X Process'' and dated April 19, 2000), for 
the W80-4 ALT program.
    (d) Briefing.--
            (1) In general.--Beginning not later than November 1, 2023, 
        and on March 1 and September 1 of each year thereafter, the 
        Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, in 
        coordination with the Secretary of the Navy, the Administrator 
        for Nuclear Security, and the Commander of the United States 
        Strategic Command, shall jointly brief the congressional 
        defense committees on the progress of the program described in 
        subsection (a).
            (2) Contents.--Each briefing required under paragraph (1) 
        shall include--
                    (A) a description of significant achievements of 
                the program described in subsection (a) completed 
                during the period specified in paragraph (3) and any 
                planned objectives that were not achieved during such 
                period;
                    (B) for the 180-day period following the briefing--
                            (i) planned objectives for the programs; 
                        and
                            (ii) anticipated spending plans for the 
                        programs;
                    (C) a description of any notable technical hurdles 
                that could impede timely completion of the programs; 
                and
                    (D) any other information the Under Secretary of 
                Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment considers 
                appropriate.
            (3) Period specified.--The period specified in this 
        paragraph is--
                    (A) in the case of the first briefing required by 
                paragraph (1), the 180-day period preceding the 
                briefing; and
                    (B) in the case of any subsequent such briefing, 
                the period since the previous such briefing.
            (4) Termination.--The requirement to provide briefings 
        under paragraph (1) shall terminate on the date that the 
        program described in subsection (a) achieve initial operational 
        capability, as defined jointly by the Secretary of the Navy and 
        the Commander of United States Strategic Command.
    (e) Phase 6.X Process Defined.--In this section, the term ``phase 
6.X process'' means the phase 6.X process for major stockpile 
sustainment activities set forth in the memorandum of the Nuclear 
Weapons Council entitled ``Procedural Guidelines for the Phase 6.X 
Process'' and dated April 19, 2000.

SEC. 1619. OPERATIONAL TIMELINE FOR STRATEGIC AUTOMATED COMMAND AND 
              CONTROL SYSTEM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall develop a 
replacement of the Strategic Automated Command and Control System 
(SACCS) by not later than the date that the LGM-35A Sentinel 
intercontinental ballistic missile program reaches initial operational 
capability.
    (b) Replacement Capabilities.--The replacement required by 
subsection (a) shall--
            (1) replace the SACCS base processors;
            (2) replace the SACCS processors at launch control centers;
            (3) provide internet protocol connectivity for wing-wide 
        command centers of the LGM-35A Sentinel intercontinental 
        ballistic missile program;
            (4) include such other capabilities necessary to address 
        the evolving requirements of the LGM-35A Sentinel 
        intercontinental ballistic missile program as the Secretary 
        considers appropriate.

SEC. 1620. AMENDMENT TO ANNUAL REPORT ON THE PLAN FOR THE NUCLEAR 
              WEAPONS STOCKPILE, NUCLEAR WEAPONS COMPLEX, NUCLEAR 
              WEAPONS DELIVERY SYSTEMS, AND NUCLEAR WEAPONS COMMAND AND 
              CONTROL SYSTEMS.

    Section 492a of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Independent Assessment by United States Strategic Command.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 150 days after the 
        submission to Congress of the budget of the President under 
        section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, the Commander 
        of United States Strategic Command shall complete an 
        independent assessment of the sufficiency of the execution of 
        acquisition, construction, and recapitalization programs of the 
        Department of Defense and the National Nuclear Security 
        Administration to modernize the nuclear forces of the United 
        States and meet current and future deterrence requirements.
            ``(2) Contents.--The assessment required under paragraph 
        (1) shall evaluate the ongoing execution of modernization 
        programs associated with--
                    ``(A) the nuclear weapons design, production, and 
                sustainment infrastructure;
                    ``(B) the nuclear weapons stockpile;
                    ``(C) the delivery systems for nuclear weapons; and
                    ``(D) the nuclear command, control, and 
                communications system.
            ``(3) Routing and submission.--
                    ``(A) Submission to nuclear weapons council.--Not 
                later than 15 days after completion of the assessment 
                required by paragraph (1), the Commander of United 
                States Strategic Command shall--
                            ``(i) submit the assessment to the Chairman 
                        of the Nuclear Weapons Council; and
                            ``(ii) notify the congressional defense 
                        committees that the assessment has been 
                        submitted to the Chairman of the Nuclear 
                        Weapons Council.
                    ``(B) Submission to congress.--Not later than 15 
                days after the Chairman of the Nuclear Weapons Council 
                receives the assessment required by paragraph (1), the 
                Chairman shall transmit the assessment, without change, 
                to the congressional defense committees.''.

SEC. 1621. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT TO ADDITIONAL REPORT MATTERS ON 
              STRATEGIC DELIVERY SYSTEMS.

    Section 495(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended in the 
matter preceding paragraph (1)--
            (1) by striking ``before fiscal year 2020'' and inserting 
        ``prior to the expiration of the Treaty between the United 
        States of America and the Russian Federation on Measures for 
        the Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive 
        Arms, signed on April 8, 2010, and entered into force on 
        February 5, 2011 (commonly referred to as the `New START 
        Treaty')''; and
            (2) by striking ``1043 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012'' and inserting ``492(a) 
        of title 10, United States Code,''.

SEC. 1622. AMENDMENT TO STUDY OF WEAPONS PROGRAMS THAT ALLOW ARMED 
              FORCES TO ADDRESS HARD AND DEEPLY BURIED TARGETS.

    Section 1674 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (e)--
                    (A) in the heading, by striking ``on Use of 
                Funds''; and
                    (B) by striking ``none of the funds authorized to 
                be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available 
                for fiscal year 2023 for the Department of Defense or 
                the Department of Energy for the deactivation, 
                dismantlement, or retirement of the B83-1 nuclear 
                gravity bomb may be obligated or expended'' and 
                inserting ``neither the Secretary of Defense nor the 
                Secretary of Energy may take any action''; and
            (2) in subsection (f), by striking ``on the use of funds 
        under'' and inserting ``in''.

SEC. 1623. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS UNTIL PROVISION OF DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE INFORMATION TO GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE.

    Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal 
year 2024 for Operation and Maintenance, Defense-wide, and available 
for the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, not more 
than 50 percent may be obligated or expended until the date on which 
the Comptroller General of the United States notifies the congressional 
defense committees that the Secretary of Defense has fully complied 
with information requests by the Government Accountability Office with 
respect to the conduct of the study required by section 1652 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 
117-81; 135 Stat. 2100).

SEC. 1624. MONITORING IRANIAN ENRICHMENT.

    (a) Significant Enrichment Activity Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``significant enrichment activity'' means--
            (1) any enrichment of any amount of uranium-235 to a purity 
        percentage that is 5 percent higher than the purity percentage 
        indicated in the prior submission to Congress under subsection 
        (b)(1); or
            (2) any enrichment of uranium-235 in a quantity exceeding 
        10 kilograms.
    (b) Submission to Congress.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 48 hours after the Director 
        of National Intelligence assesses that the Islamic Republic of 
        Iran has produced or possesses any amount of uranium-235 
        enriched to greater than 60 percent purity or has engaged in 
        significant enrichment activity, the Director of National 
        Intelligence shall submit to Congress such assessment, 
        consistent with the protection of intelligence sources and 
        methods.
            (2) Duplication.--For any submission required by this 
        subsection, the Director of National Intelligence may rely upon 
        existing products that reflect the current analytic judgment of 
        the intelligence community, including reports or products 
        produced in response to congressional mandate or requests from 
        executive branch officials.

                      Subtitle C--Missile Defense

SEC. 1631. DESIGNATION OF OFFICIAL RESPONSIBLE FOR MISSILE DEFENSE OF 
              GUAM.

    Paragraph (1) of section 1660(b) of the James M. Inhofe National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263) is 
amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) Designation.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
        designate the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment as the senior official of the Department of Defense 
        who shall be responsible for the missile defense of Guam during 
        the period preceding the date specified in paragraph (5).''.

SEC. 1632. SELECTION OF A DIRECTOR OF THE MISSILE DEFENSE AGENCY.

    Subsection (a) of section 205 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Director of the Missile Defense Agency.--There is a Director 
of the Missile Defense Agency who shall be appointed for a period of 
six years by the President from among the general officers on active 
duty in the Army, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Space Force or from among 
the flag officers on active duty in the Navy.''.

SEC. 1633. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENT FOR COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE 
              UNITED STATES REVIEW AND ASSESSMENT OF MISSILE DEFENSE 
              ACQUISITION PROGRAMS.

    Section 232(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1339), as amended by section 
1688 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
(Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1144) and section 1644 of the William M. 
(Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2021 (Public Law 116-283; 134 Stat. 4062), is further amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``through 2025'' and 
        inserting ``through 2030'';
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``through 2026'' and 
        inserting ``through 2031''; and
            (3) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) in the paragraph heading, by striking 
                ``emerging'' and inserting ``other department of 
                defense missile defense acquisition efforts and 
                related'';
                    (B) by striking ``emerging issues and'' and 
                inserting ``emerging issues, any Department of Defense 
                missile defense acquisition efforts, and any other 
                related issue and''; and
                    (C) by inserting ``on a mutually agreed upon date'' 
                before the period at the end.

SEC. 1634. IRON DOME SHORT-RANGE ROCKET DEFENSE SYSTEM AND ISRAELI 
              COOPERATIVE MISSILE DEFENSE PROGRAM CO-DEVELOPMENT AND 
              CO-PRODUCTION.

    (a) Iron Dome Short-range Rocket Defense System.--
            (1) Availability of funds.--Of the funds authorized to be 
        appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2024 for procurement, 
        Defense-wide, and available for the Missile Defense Agency, not 
        more than $80,000,000 may be provided to the Government of 
        Israel to procure components for the Iron Dome short-range 
        rocket defense system through co-production of such components 
        in the United States by industry of the United States.
            (2) Conditions.--
                    (A) Agreement.--Funds described in paragraph (1) 
                for the Iron Dome short-range rocket defense program 
                shall be available subject to the terms and conditions 
                in the Agreement Between the Department of Defense of 
                the United States of America and the Ministry of 
                Defense of the State of Israel Concerning Iron Dome 
                Defense System Procurement, signed on March 5, 2014, as 
                amended to include co-production for Tamir 
                interceptors.
                    (B) Certification.--Not later than 30 days prior to 
                the initial obligation of funds described in paragraph 
                (1), the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
                Sustainment shall submit to the appropriate 
                congressional committees--
                            (i) a certification that the amended 
                        bilateral international agreement specified in 
                        subparagraph (A) is being implemented as 
                        provided in such agreement;
                            (ii) an assessment detailing any risks 
                        relating to the implementation of such 
                        agreement; and
                            (iii) for system improvements resulting in 
                        modified Iron Dome components and Tamir 
                        interceptor sub-components, a certification 
                        that the Government of Israel has demonstrated 
                        successful completion of Production Readiness 
                        Reviews, including the validation of production 
                        lines, the verification of component 
                        conformance, and the verification of 
                        performance to specification as defined in the 
                        Iron Dome Defense System Procurement Agreement, 
                        as further amended.
    (b) Israeli Cooperative Missile Defense Program, David's Sling 
Weapon System Co-production.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (3), of the funds 
        authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2024 for 
        procurement, Defense-wide, and available for the Missile 
        Defense Agency not more than $40,000,000 may be provided to the 
        Government of Israel to procure the David's Sling Weapon 
        System, including for co-production of parts and components in 
        the United States by United States industry.
            (2) Agreement.--Provision of funds specified in paragraph 
        (1) shall be subject to the terms and conditions in the 
        bilateral co-production agreement, including--
                    (A) a one-for-one cash match is made by Israel or 
                in another matching amount that otherwise meets best 
                efforts (as mutually agreed to by the United States and 
                Israel); and
                    (B) co-production of parts, components, and all-up 
                rounds (if appropriate) in the United States by United 
                States industry for the David's Sling Weapon System is 
                not less than 50 percent.
            (3) Certification and assessment.--The Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall submit to the 
        appropriate congressional committees--
                    (A) a certification that the Government of Israel 
                has demonstrated the successful completion of the 
                knowledge points, technical milestones, and Production 
                Readiness Reviews required by the research, 
                development, and technology agreement and the bilateral 
                co-production agreement for the David's Sling Weapon 
                System; and
                    (B) an assessment detailing any risks relating to 
                the implementation of such agreement.
    (c) Israeli Cooperative Missile Defense Program, Arrow 3 Upper Tier 
Interceptor Program Co-production.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), of the funds 
        authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2024 for 
        procurement, Defense-wide, and available for the Missile 
        Defense Agency not more than $80,000,000 may be provided to the 
        Government of Israel for the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor 
        Program, including for co-production of parts and components in 
        the United States by United States industry.
            (2) Certification.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment shall submit to the appropriate 
        congressional committees a certification that--
                    (A) the Government of Israel has demonstrated the 
                successful completion of the knowledge points, 
                technical milestones, and Production Readiness Reviews 
                required by the research, development, and technology 
                agreement for the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor 
                Program;
                    (B) funds specified in paragraph (1) will be 
                provided on the basis of a one-for-one cash match made 
                by Israel or in another matching amount that otherwise 
                meets best efforts (as mutually agreed to by the United 
                States and Israel);
                    (C) the United States has entered into a bilateral 
                international agreement with Israel that establishes, 
                with respect to the use of such funds--
                            (i) in accordance with subparagraph (D), 
                        the terms of co-production of parts and 
                        components on the basis of the greatest 
                        practicable co-production of parts, components, 
                        and all-up rounds (if appropriate) by United 
                        States industry and minimizes nonrecurring 
                        engineering and facilitization expenses to the 
                        costs needed for co-production;
                            (ii) complete transparency on the 
                        requirement of Israel for the number of 
                        interceptors and batteries that will be 
                        procured, including with respect to the 
                        procurement plans, acquisition strategy, and 
                        funding profiles of Israel;
                            (iii) technical milestones for co-
                        production of parts and components and 
                        procurement;
                            (iv) a joint affordability working group to 
                        consider cost reduction initiatives; and
                            (v) joint approval processes for third-
                        party sales; and
                    (D) the level of co-production described in 
                subparagraph (C)(i) for the Arrow 3 Upper Tier 
                Interceptor Program is not less than 50 percent.
    (d) Number.--In carrying out paragraph (2) of subsection (b) and 
paragraph (2) of subsection (c), the Under Secretary may submit--
            (1) one certification covering both the David's Sling 
        Weapon System and the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program; 
        or
            (2) separate certifications for each respective system.
    (e) Timing.--The Under Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees the certification and assessment under subsection 
(b)(3) and the certification under subsection (c)(2) no later than 30 
days before the funds specified in paragraph (1) of subsections (b) and 
(c) for the respective system covered by the certification are provided 
to the Government of Israel.
    (f) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
            (1) The congressional defense committees.
            (2) The Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
        the
            (3) Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives.

SEC. 1635. MODIFICATION OF SCOPE OF PROGRAM ACCOUNTABILITY MATRICES 
              REQUIREMENTS FOR NEXT GENERATION INTERCEPTORS FOR MISSILE 
              DEFENSE OF THE UNITED STATES HOMELAND.

    Section 1668(f) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117-81) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``and the product development phase'' 
        after ``technology development phase'' each place is appears; 
        and
            (2) in paragraph (7), by striking ``enter the product 
        development phase'' and inserting ``enter the production 
        phase''.

SEC. 1636. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR OFFICE OF COST 
              ASSESSMENT AND PROGRAM EVALUATION UNTIL SUBMISSION OF 
              MISSILE DEFENSE ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES REPORT.

    Of the funds authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2024 by 
section 301 for operation and maintenance, Defense-wide, and available 
for the Office of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, not more than 
50 percent may be obligated or expended until the date on which the 
Secretary of Defense submits to the congressional defense committees 
the report required by section 1675(b) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117-81).

SEC. 1637. INTEGRATED AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE ARCHITECTURE FOR THE 
              INDO-PACIFIC REGION.

    (a) Strategy Required.--The Commander of United States Indo-Pacific 
Command shall, in coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Sustainment, the Commander of United States Northern 
Command, the Director of the Missile Defense Agency, and the Director 
of the Joint Integrated Air and Missile Defense Organization, develop a 
comprehensive strategy for developing, acquiring, and operationally 
establishing an integrated air and missile defense architecture for the 
United States Indo-Pacific Command area of responsibility.
    (b) Strategy Components.--At a minimum, the strategy required by 
subsection (a) shall address the following:
            (1) The sensing, tracking, and intercepting capabilities 
        required to address the full range of credible missile threats 
        to--
                    (A) the Hawaiian Islands;
                    (B) the island of Guam and other islands in the 
                greater Marianas region, as determined necessary by the 
                Commander of United States Indo-Pacific Command;
                    (C) other United States territories within the area 
                of responsibility of United States Indo-Pacific 
                Command; and
                    (D) United States forces deployed within the 
                territories of other nations within such area of 
                responsibility.
            (2) The appropriate balance of missile detection, tracking, 
        defense, and defeat capabilities within such area of 
        responsibility.
            (3) A command and control network for integrating missile 
        detection, tracking, defense, and defeat capabilities across 
        such area of responsibility.
            (4) A time-phased scheduling construct for fielding the 
        constituent systems that will comprise the integrated air and 
        missile defense architecture for such area of responsibility.
    (c) Annual Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than March 15, 2024, and not 
        less frequently than once each year thereafter, the Commander 
        of United States Indo-Pacific Command shall, in coordination 
        with the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment, the Commander of United States Northern Command, 
        the Director of the Missile Defense Agency, and the Director of 
        the Joint Integrated Air and Missile Defense Organization, 
        submit to the congressional defense committees an annual report 
        outlining the following with regard to the strategy developed 
        pursuant to subsection (a):
                    (A) The activities conducted and progress made in 
                developing and implementing the strategy over the 
                previous calendar year.
                    (B) The planned activities for developing and 
                implementing the strategy in the upcoming year.
                    (C) A description of likely risks and impediments 
                to the successful implementation of the strategy.
            (2) Termination.--The requirements of paragraph (1) shall 
        terminate on the earlier of the following:
                    (A) March 15, 2029.
                    (B) The date on which a comprehensive integrated 
                air and missile defense architecture for the area of 
                responsibility of United States Indo-Pacific Command 
                has achieved initial operational capability, as 
                determined jointly by the Commander of United States 
                Indo-Pacific Command and the Director of the Missile 
                Defense Agency.
    (d) Limitations.--Of the equipment and components previously 
procured by the Department of Defense for the purposes of constructing 
the Homeland Defense Radar-Hawaii, none of such assets may be 
repurposed for other uses until the first annual report required by 
subsection (c)(1) is submitted to the congressional defense committees 
pursuant to such subsection.

SEC. 1638. MODIFICATION OF NATIONAL MISSILE DEFENSE POLICY.

    Section 1681(a) of the of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for fiscal year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 10 U.S.C. 4205 note) is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Policy.--It is the policy of the United States to--
            ``(1) maintain and improve, with funding subject to the 
        annual authorization of appropriations and the annual 
        appropriation of funds for National Missile Defense--
                    ``(A) an effective, layered missile defense system 
                capable of defending the territory of the United States 
                against the developing and increasingly complex missile 
                threat; and
                    ``(B) an effective regional missile defense system 
                capable of defending the allies, partners, and deployed 
                forces of the United States against increasingly 
                complex missile threats; and
            ``(2) rely on nuclear deterrence to address more 
        sophisticated and larger quantity near-peer intercontinental 
        missile threats to the homeland of the United States.''.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

SEC. 1641. ELECTRONIC WARFARE.

    (a) In General.--Part I of subtitle A of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new chapter:

                    ``CHAPTER 25--ELECTRONIC WARFARE

``Sec.
``500. Electronic Warfare Executive Committee.
``500a. Guidance on the electronic warfare mission area and joint 
                            electromagnetic spectrum operations.
``500b. Annual report on electronic warfare strategy of the Department 
                            of Defense.
``500c. Annual assessment of budget with respect to electronic warfare 
                            capabilities.
``500d. Electromagnetic spectrum superiority implementation plan.
``500e. Electromagnetic Spectrum Enterprise Operational Lead for Joint 
                            Electromagnetic Spectrum Operations.
``500f. Evaluations of abilities of armed forces and combatant commands 
                            to perform electromagnetic spectrum 
                            operations missions.
``Sec. 500. Electronic Warfare Executive Committee
    ``(a) In General.--There is within the Department of Defense an 
Electronic Warfare Executive Committee (in this section referred to as 
the `Executive Committee').
    ``(b) Purposes.--The Executive Committee shall--
            ``(1) serve as the principal forum within the Department of 
        Defense to inform, coordinate, and evaluate matters relating to 
        electronic warfare;
            ``(2) provide senior oversight, coordination, and budget 
        and capability harmonization with respect to such matters; and
            ``(3) act as an advisory body to the Secretary of Defense, 
        the Deputy Secretary of Defense, and the Management Action 
        Group of the Deputy Secretary with respect to such matters.
    ``(c) Responsibilities.--The Executive Committee shall--
            ``(1) advise key senior level decision-making bodies of the 
        Department of Defense with respect to the development and 
        implementation of acquisition investments relating to 
        electronic warfare and electromagnetic spectrum operations of 
        the Department, including relevant acquisition policies, 
        projects, programs, modeling, and test and evaluation 
        infrastructure;
            ``(2) provide a forum to enable synchronization and 
        integration support with respect to the development and 
        acquisition of electronic warfare capabilities--
                    ``(A) by aligning the processes of the Department 
                for requirements, research, development, acquisition, 
                testing, and sustainment; and
                    ``(B) carrying out other related duties; and
            ``(3) act as the senior level review forum for the 
        portfolio of capability investments of the Department relating 
        to electronic warfare and electromagnetic spectrum operations 
        and other related matters.
    ``(d) Coordination With Intelligence Community.--The Executive 
Committee, acting through the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Intelligence and Security, shall coordinate with the intelligence 
community (as defined in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 
(50 U.S.C. 3003)) to generate requirements, facilitate collaboration, 
establish interfaces, and align efforts of the Department of Defense 
with respect to electronic warfare capability and acquisition with 
efforts of the intelligence community relating to electronic warfare 
capability and acquisition in areas of dependency or mutual interest 
between the Department and the intelligence community.
    ``(e) Meetings.--
            ``(1) Frequency.--The Executive Committee shall hold 
        meetings not less frequently than quarterly and as necessary to 
        address particular issues.
            ``(2) Form.--The Executive Committee may hold meetings by 
        videoconference.
    ``(f) Membership.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Executive Committee shall be 
        composed of the following principal members:
                    ``(A) The Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Acquisition and Sustainment.
                    ``(B) The Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
                Staff.
                    ``(C) The Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Intelligence and Security.
                    ``(D) The Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.
                    ``(E) The Commander of the United States Strategic 
                Command.
                    ``(F) The Chief Information Officer of the 
                Department of Defense.
                    ``(G) Such other Federal officers or employees as 
                the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate, 
                consistent with other authorities of the Department of 
                Defense and publications of the Joint Staff, including 
                the Charter for the Electronic Warfare Executive 
                Committee, dated March 17, 2015.
    ``(g) Co-chairs of Executive Committee.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment and the Vice Chairman of the Joint 
        Chiefs of Staff, or their designees, shall serve as co-chairs 
        of the Executive Committee.
            ``(2) Responsibilities of co-chairs.--The co-chairs of the 
        Executive Committee shall--
                    ``(A) preside at all Executive Committee meetings 
                or have their designees preside at such meetings;
                    ``(B) provide administrative control of the 
                Executive Committee;
                    ``(C) jointly guide the activities and actions of 
                the Executive Committee;
                    ``(D) approve all agendas for and summaries of 
                meetings of the Executive Committee;
                    ``(E) charter tailored working groups to conduct 
                mission area analysis, as required, under subsection 
                (i); and
                    ``(F) perform such other duties as may be necessary 
                to ensure the good order and functioning of the 
                Executive Committee.
    ``(h) Electronic Warfare Capability Team.--
            ``(1) In general.--There is within the Executive Committee 
        an electronic warfare capability team, which shall--
                    ``(A) serve as a flag officer level focus group and 
                executive secretariat subordinate to the Executive 
                Committee; and
                    ``(B) in that capacity--
                            ``(i) provide initial senior level 
                        coordination on key electronic warfare issues;
                            ``(ii) prepare recommended courses of 
                        action to present to the Executive Committee; 
                        and
                            ``(iii) perform other related duties.
            ``(2) Co-chairs.--The electronic warfare capability team 
        shall be co-chaired by one representative from the Office of 
        the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment 
        and one representative from the Force Structure, Resources, and 
        Assessment Directorate of the Joint Staff (J-8).
            ``(3) Staff.--The principal members of the Executive 
        Committee shall designate representatives from their respective 
        staffs to the electronic warfare capability team.
    ``(i) Mission Area Working Groups.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Executive Committee shall establish 
        mission area working groups on a temporary basis--
                    ``(A) to address specific issues and mission areas 
                relating to electronic warfare and electromagnetic 
                spectrum operations;
                    ``(B) to involve subject matter experts and 
                components of the Department of Defense with expertise 
                in electronic warfare and electromagnetic spectrum 
                operations; and
                    ``(C) to perform other related duties.
            ``(2) Dissolution.--The Executive Committee shall dissolve 
        a mission area working group established under paragraph (1) 
        once the issue the working group was established to address is 
        satisfactorily resolved.
    ``(j) Administration.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Sustainment shall administratively support the 
Executive Committee, including by designating not fewer than two 
officials of the Department of Defense to support the day-to-day 
operations of the Executive Committee.
    ``(k) Report to Congress.--Not later than February 28, 2024, and 
annually thereafter through 2030, the Executive Committee shall submit 
to the congressional defense committees a summary of activities of the 
Executive Committee during the preceding fiscal year.
``Sec. 500a. Guidance on the electronic warfare mission area and joint 
              electromagnetic spectrum operations
    ``The Secretary of Defense shall--
            ``(1) establish processes and procedures to develop, 
        integrate, and enhance the electronic warfare mission area and 
        the conduct of joint electromagnetic spectrum operations in all 
        domains across the Department of Defense; and
            ``(2) ensure that such processes and procedures provide for 
        integrated defense-wide strategy, planning, and budgeting with 
        respect to the conduct of such operations by the Department, 
        including activities conducted to counter and deter such 
        operations by malign actors.
``Sec. 500b. Annual report on electronic warfare strategy of the 
              Department of Defense
    ``(a) In General.--At the same time as the President submits to 
Congress the budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31 
for each of fiscal years 2025 through 2029, the Secretary of Defense, 
in coordination with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the 
Secretary of each of the military departments, shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees an annual report on the electronic 
warfare strategy of the Department of Defense.
    ``(b) Contents of Report.--Each report required under subsection 
(a) shall include each of the following:
            ``(1) A description and overview of--
                    ``(A) the electronic warfare strategy of the 
                Department of Defense;
                    ``(B) how such strategy supports the National 
                Defense Strategy; and
                    ``(C) the organizational structure assigned to 
                oversee the development of the Department's electronic 
                warfare strategy, requirements, capabilities, programs, 
                and projects.
            ``(2) A list of all the electronic warfare acquisition 
        programs and research and development projects of the 
        Department of Defense and a description of how each program or 
        project supports the Department's electronic warfare strategy.
            ``(3) For each unclassified program or project on the list 
        required by paragraph (2)--
                    ``(A) the senior acquisition executive and 
                organization responsible for oversight of the program 
                or project;
                    ``(B) whether or not validated requirements exist 
                for the program or project and, if such requirements do 
                exist, the date on which the requirements were 
                validated and the organizational authority that 
                validated such requirements;
                    ``(C) the total amount of funding appropriated, 
                obligated, and forecasted by fiscal year for the 
                program or project, including the program element or 
                procurement line number from which the program or 
                project receives funding;
                    ``(D) the development or procurement schedule for 
                the program or project;
                    ``(E) an assessment of the cost, schedule, and 
                performance of the program or project as it relates to 
                the program baseline for the program or project, as of 
                the date of the submission of the report, and the 
                original program baseline for such program or project, 
                if such baselines are not the same;
                    ``(F) the technology readiness level of each 
                critical technology that is part of the program or 
                project;
                    ``(G) whether or not the program or project is 
                redundant or overlaps with the efforts of another 
                military department; and
                    ``(H) the capability gap that the program or 
                project is being developed or procured to fulfill.
            ``(4) A classified annex that contains the items described 
        in subparagraphs (A) through (H) of paragraph (3) for each 
        classified program or project on the list required by paragraph 
        (2).
``Sec. 500c. Annual assessment of budget with respect to electronic 
              warfare capabilities
    ``At the same time as the President submits to Congress the budget 
of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31 for each of fiscal 
years 2025 through 2029, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees an assessment by the Director of Cost 
Assessment and Program Evaluation as to whether sufficient funds are 
requested in such budget for anticipated activities in such fiscal year 
for each of the following:
            ``(1) The development of an electromagnetic battle 
        management capability for joint electromagnetic spectrum 
        operations.
            ``(2) The establishment and operation of associated joint 
        electromagnetic spectrum operations cells.
``Sec. 500d. Electromagnetic spectrum superiority implementation plan
    ``(a) In General.--The Chief Information Officer of the Department 
of Defense shall be responsible for oversight of the electromagnetic 
superiority implementation plan.
    ``(b) Report Required.--Concurrent with the submission of the 
budget of the President to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31 
for each of fiscal years 2025 through 2029, the Chief Information 
Officer shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
that includes the following with respect to the electromagnetic 
superiority implementation plan:
            ``(1) The implementation plan in effect as of the date of 
        the report, noting any revisions from the preceding plan.
            ``(2) A statement of the elements of the implementation 
        plan that have been achieved.
            ``(3) For each element that has been achieved, an 
        assessment of whether the element is having its intended 
        effect.
            ``(4) For any element that has not been achieved, an 
        assessment of progress made in achieving the element, including 
        a description of any obstacles that may hinder further 
        progress.
            ``(5) For any element that has been removed from the 
        implementation plan, a description of the reason for the 
        removal of the element and an assessment of the impact of not 
        pursuing achievement of the element.
            ``(6) Such additional matters as the Chief Information 
        Officer considers appropriate.
    ``(c) Electromagnetic Superiority Implementation Plan Defined.--In 
this section, the term `electromagnetic superiority implementation 
plan' means the Electromagnetic Superiority Implementation Plan signed 
by the Secretary of Defense on July 15, 2021, and any successor plan.
``Sec. 500e. Electromagnetic Spectrum Enterprise Operational Lead for 
              Joint Electromagnetic Spectrum Operations
    ``(a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2024, the Secretary of Defense shall establish an Electromagnetic 
Spectrum Enterprise Operational Lead for Joint Electromagnetic Spectrum 
Operations (in this section referred to as the `operational lead') at 
the United States Strategic Command, which shall report to the 
Commander of the United States Strategic Command.
    ``(b) Function.--The operational lead shall be responsible for 
synchronizing, assessing, and making recommendations to the Chairman of 
the Joint Chiefs of Staff with respect to the readiness of the 
combatant commands to conduct joint electromagnetic spectrum 
operations.
    ``(c) Briefings Required.--Concurrent with the submission of the 
budget of the President to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31 
for each of fiscal years 2025 through 2029, the Chairman, acting 
through the operational lead, shall brief to the congressional defense 
committees on the following:
            ``(1) Progress made in achieving full operational 
        capability to conduct joint electromagnetic spectrum operations 
        and any impediments to achieving such capability.
            ``(2) The readiness of the combatant commands to conduct 
        such operations.
            ``(3) Recommendations for overcoming any deficiencies in 
        the readiness of the combatant commands to conduct such 
        operations and any material gaps contributing to such 
        deficiencies.
            ``(4) Such other matters as the Chairman considers 
        important to ensuring that the combatant commands are capable 
        of conducting such operations.
``Sec. 500f. Evaluations of abilities of armed forces and combatant 
              commands to perform electromagnetic spectrum operations 
              missions
    ``(a) Evaluations of Armed Forces.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than October 1, 2024, and 
        annually thereafter through 2029, the Chief of Staff of the 
        Army, the Chief of Naval Operations, the Chief of Staff of the 
        Air Force, the Commandant of the Marine Corps, and the Chief of 
        Space Operations shall each carry out an evaluation of the 
        ability of the armed force concerned to perform electromagnetic 
        spectrum operations missions required by each of the following:
                    ``(A) The Electromagnetic Spectrum Superiority 
                Strategy.
                    ``(B) The Joint Staff-developed concept of 
                operations for electromagnetic spectrum operations.
                    ``(C) The operations and contingency plans of the 
                combatant commands.
            ``(2) Certification required.--Not later than December 31 
        of each year in which evaluations are required under paragraph 
        (1), each official specified in that paragraph shall certify to 
        the congressional defense committees that the evaluation 
        required to be carried out by that official has occurred.
            ``(3) Elements.--Each evaluation under paragraph (1) shall 
        include an assessment of the following:
                    ``(A) Current programs of record, including--
                            ``(i) the ability of weapon systems to 
                        perform missions in contested electromagnetic 
                        spectrum environments; and
                            ``(ii) the ability of electronic warfare 
                        capabilities to disrupt adversary operations.
                    ``(B) Future programs of record, including--
                            ``(i) the need for distributed or network-
                        centric electronic warfare and signals 
                        intelligence capabilities; and
                            ``(ii) the need for automated and machine 
                        learning- or artificial intelligence-assisted 
                        electronic warfare capabilities.
                    ``(C) Order of battle.
                    ``(D) Individual and unit training.
                    ``(E) Tactics, techniques, and procedures, 
                including--
                            ``(i) maneuver, distribution of assets, and 
                        the use of decoys; and
                            ``(ii) integration of non-kinetic and 
                        kinetic fires.
                    ``(F) Other matters relevant to evaluating the 
                ability of the armed force concerned to perform 
                electromagnetic spectrum operations missions described 
                in paragraph (1).
    ``(b) Evaluations of Combatant Commands.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than October 1, 2024, and 
        annually thereafter through 2029, the Chairman of the Joint 
        Chiefs of Staff, acting through the Electromagnetic Spectrum 
        Enterprise Operational Lead for Joint Electromagnetic Spectrum 
        Operations established under section 500e (in this section 
        referred to as the `operational lead'), shall carry out an 
        evaluation of the plans and posture of the combatant commands 
        to execute the electromagnetic spectrum operations envisioned 
        in each of the following:
                    ``(A) The Electromagnetic Spectrum Superiority 
                Strategy.
                    ``(B) The Joint Staff-developed concept of 
                operations for electromagnetic spectrum operations.
            ``(2) Elements.--Each evaluation under paragraph (1) shall 
        include an assessment, as relevant, of the following:
                    ``(A) Operation and contingency plans.
                    ``(B) The manning, organizational alignment, and 
                capability of joint electromagnetic spectrum operations 
                cells.
                    ``(C) Mission rehearsal and exercises.
                    ``(D) Force positioning, posture, and readiness.
            ``(3) Briefing required.--Not later than December 31 of 
        each year in which an evaluation is required under paragraph 
        (A), the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, acting through 
        the operational lead, shall brief the congressional defense 
        committees on the results of the evaluation.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The tables of chapters at the beginning of 
subtitle A of title 10, United States Code, and at the beginning of 
part I of such subtitle, are each amended by inserting after the item 
relating to chapter 24 the following new item:

``25. Electronic Warfare....................................     500''.
    (c) Conforming Repeal.--Section 1053 of the John S. McCain National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 10 
U.S.C. 113 note) is repealed.

SEC. 1642. STUDY ON THE FUTURE OF THE INTEGRATED TACTICAL WARNING 
              ATTACK ASSESSMENT SYSTEM.

    (a) In General.--The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall 
enter into an agreement with a federally funded research and 
development center--
            (1) to conduct a study on the future of the Integrated 
        Tactical Warning Attack Assessment System (ITW/AA); and
            (2) to submit to the Chairman a report on the findings of 
        the center with respect to the study conducted under paragraph 
        (1).
    (b) Elements.--The study conducted pursuant to an agreement under 
subsection (a) shall cover the following:
            (1) Future air and missile threats to the United States.
            (2) The integration of multi-domain sensor data and their 
        ground systems with the existing architecture of the Integrated 
        Tactical Warning Attack Assessment System.
            (3) The effect of the integration described in paragraph 
        (2) on the data reliability standards of the Integrated 
        Tactical Warning Attack Assessment System.
            (4) Future data visualization, conferencing, and 
        decisionmaking capabilities of such system.
            (5) Such other matters as the Chairman considers relevant 
        to the study.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Chairman shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees--
            (1) the report submitted to the Chairman under subsection 
        (a)(2); and
            (2) the assessment of the Chairman with respect to the 
        findings in such report and the recommendations of the Chairman 
        with respect to modernizing the Integrated Tactical Warning 
        Attack Assessment System.

SEC. 1643. COMPREHENSIVE REVIEW OF ELECTRONIC WARFARE TEST RANGES AND 
              FUTURE CAPABILITIES.

    (a) In General.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
Engineering, in consultation with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff, shall conduct a comprehensive review of any deficiencies in the 
capacity of the electronic warfare test ranges and future electronic 
warfare capabilities of the Department of Defense relating to current 
and future global threats, research and development efforts, modeling, 
and electromagnetic and physical encroachment of the test ranges.
    (b) Elements.--The review required by subsection (a) shall consider 
the following:
            (1) Each electronic warfare test range, its size, any 
        distinguishing features, and its electronic warfare 
        capabilities.
            (2) The electronic warfare capabilities that are best 
        practiced at which range and any encroachment issues between 
        ranges.
            (3) Future electronic warfare capabilities and planned 
        acquisitions.
            (4) Any modeling the Test Resource Management Center has 
        done on incorporating future or planned electronic warfare 
        capabilities into the current test ranges.
            (5) Any other matter the Under Secretary considers 
        necessary.
    (c) Briefing Required.--Not later than March 31, 2024, the Under 
Secretary shall provide the congressional defense committees with a 
briefing on the findings of the review required by subsection (a) that 
includes--
            (1) an assessment of any deficiency in the electronic 
        warfare test ranges and future electronic warfare capabilities 
        of the Department of Defense identified in the review; and
            (2) a plan to address any such deficiency in a timely 
        manner.

SEC. 1644. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION FOR PROTECTION OF CERTAIN 
              FACILITIES AND ASSETS FROM UNMANNED AIRCRAFT.

    Section 130i(i) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``2023'' both places it appears and inserting ``2026''.

SEC. 1645. ADDRESSING SERIOUS DEFICIENCIES IN ELECTRONIC PROTECTION OF 
              SYSTEMS THAT OPERATE IN THE RADIO FREQUENCY SPECTRUM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall take such actions 
as the Secretary considers necessary and practicable--
            (1) to establish requirements for and assign sufficient 
        priority to ensuring electronic protection of sensor, 
        navigation, and communications systems and subsystems against 
        jamming, spoofing, and unintended interference from military 
        systems; and
            (2) to provide management oversight and supervision of the 
        military departments to ensure electronic protection of 
        military systems that emit and receive in radio frequencies 
        against modern threats and interference from military systems 
        operating in the same or adjacent radio frequency of Federal 
        spectrum.
    (b) Specific Required Actions.--The Secretary shall require the 
military departments and combat support agencies to--
            (1) develop and approve requirements, through the Joint 
        Requirements Oversight Council as appropriate, within 270 days 
        of the date of the enactment of this Act, for every radar, 
        signals intelligence, navigation, and communications system and 
        subsystem subject to the Global Force Management process to be 
        able to withstand threat-realistic levels of jamming, spoofing, 
        and unintended interference, which includes self-generated 
        interference;
            (2) test every system and subsystem described in paragraph 
        (1) at a test range that permits threat-realistic electronic 
        warfare attacks against the system or subsystem by a red team 
        or opposition force at least once every 4 years, with the first 
        set of highest priority systems to be initially tested no later 
        than fiscal year 2025;
            (3) retrofit every system and subsystem described in 
        paragraph (1) that fails to meet electronic protection 
        requirements during testing with electronic protection measures 
        that can withstand threat-realistic jamming, spoofing, and 
        unintended interference within 3 years from the date of the 
        testing, and to retest such systems and subsystems within 4 
        years of the initial failed test;
            (4) survey, identify, and test available technology that 
        can be practically and affordably retro-fitted on the systems 
        described in paragraph (1) and which provides robust protection 
        against threat-realistic jamming, spoofing, and unintended 
        interference; and
            (5) design and build electronic protection into ongoing and 
        future development programs to withstand expected jamming and 
        spoofing threats and unintended interference.
    (c) Waiver.--The Secretary may establish a process for issuing 
waivers on a case-by-case basis for the testing requirement established 
in paragraph (2) of subsection (b) and for the retrofit requirement 
established in paragraph (3) of such subsection.
    (d) Annual Reports.--Each fiscal year, coinciding with the 
submission of the President's budget request to Congress pursuant to 
section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, through fiscal year 
2030, the Director of Operational Test and Evaluation shall submit to 
the Electronic Warfare Executive Committee, the Committee on Armed 
Services of the Senate, and the Committee on Armed Services of the 
House of Representatives a comprehensive annual report aggregating 
reporting from the military departments and combat support agencies 
that describes--
            (1) the implementation of the requirements of this section;
            (2) the systems subject to testing in the previous year and 
        the results of such tests, including a description of the 
        requirements for electronic protection established for the 
        tested systems; and
            (3) each waiver issued in the previous year with respect to 
        such requirements, together with a detailed rationale for the 
        waiver and a plan for addressing the basis for the waiver 
        request.

SEC. 1646. FUNDING LIMITATION ON CERTAIN UNREPORTED PROGRAMS.

    (a) Limitation on Availability of Funds.--None of the funds 
authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2024 may be 
obligated or expended, directly or indirectly, in part or in whole, 
for, on, in relation to, or in support of activities involving 
unidentified anomalous phenomena protected under any form of special 
access or restricted access limitations that have not been formally, 
officially, explicitly, and specifically described, explained, and 
justified to the appropriate committees of Congress, congressional 
leadership, and the Director, including for any activities relating to 
the following:
            (1) Recruiting, employing, training, equipping, and 
        operations of, and providing security for, Government or 
        contractor personnel with a primary, secondary, or contingency 
        mission of capturing, recovering, and securing unidentified 
        anomalous phenomena craft or pieces and components of such 
        craft.
            (2) Analyzing such craft or pieces or components thereof, 
        including for the purpose of determining properties, material 
        composition, method of manufacture, origin, characteristics, 
        usage and application, performance, operational modalities, or 
        reverse engineering of such craft or component technology.
            (3) Managing and providing security for protecting 
        activities and information relating to unidentified anomalous 
        phenomena from disclosure or compromise.
            (4) Actions relating to reverse engineering or replicating 
        unidentified anomalous phenomena technology or performance 
        based on analysis of materials or sensor and observational 
        information associated with unidentified anomalous phenomena.
            (5) The development of propulsion technology, or aerospace 
        craft that uses propulsion technology, systems, or subsystems 
        that is based on or derived from or inspired by inspection, 
        analysis, or reverse engineering of recovered unidentified 
        anomalous phenomena craft or materials.
            (6) Any aerospace craft that uses propulsion technology 
        other than chemical propellants, solar power, and electric ion 
        thrust.
    (b) Notification and Reporting.--
            (1) In general.--Any person currently or formerly under 
        contract with the Federal Government that has in their 
        possession material or information provided by or derived from 
        the Federal Government relating to unidentified anomalous 
        phenomena that formerly or currently is protected by any form 
        of special access or restricted access shall--
                    (A) not later than 60 days after the date of the 
                enactment of this Act, notify the Director of such 
                possession; and
                    (B) not later than 180 days after the date of the 
                enactment of this Act, make available to the Director 
                for assessment, analysis, and inspection--
                            (i) all such material and information; and
                            (ii) a comprehensive list of all non-earth 
                        origin or exotic unidentified anomalous 
                        phenomena materiel.
            (2) Protections.--The provision of notice and the making 
        available of material and information under paragraph (1) shall 
        be treated as an authorized disclosure under section 1673(b) of 
        the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2023 (50 U.S.C. 3373b).
    (c) Limitation Regarding Independent Research and Development.--
Consistent with Department of Defense Instruction Number 3204.01 (dated 
August 20, 2014, incorporating change 2, dated July 9, 2020; relating 
to Department policy for oversight of independent research and 
development), independent research and development funding relating to 
material or information described in subsection (a) shall not be 
allowable as indirect expenses for purposes of contracts covered by 
such instruction, unless such material and information is made 
available to the Director in accordance with subsection (b).
    (d) Notice to Congress.--Not later than 30 days after the date on 
which the Director has received a notification under subparagraph (A) 
of subsection (b)(1) or information or material under paragraph (B) of 
such subsection, the Director shall provide a written notification of 
such receipt to the appropriate committees of Congress and 
congressional leadership.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Select Committee on Intelligence, the 
                Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on 
                Appropriations of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, 
                the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on 
                Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
            (2) The term ``congressional leadership'' means--
                    (A) the majority leader of the Senate;
                    (B) the minority leader of the Senate;
                    (C) the Speaker of the House of Representatives; 
                and
                    (D) the minority leader of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (3) The term ``Director'' means the Director of the All-
        domain Anomaly Resolution Office.
            (4) The term ``unidentified anomalous phenomena'' has the 
        meaning given such term in section 1683(n)of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (50 U.S.C. 
        3373(n)), as amended by section 6802(a) of the Intelligence 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263).

SEC. 1647. REVISION OF SECRETARY OF DEFENSE AUTHORITY TO ENGAGE IN 
              COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES AS SECURITY FOR INTELLIGENCE 
              COLLECTION ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Extension of Authority.--Section 431(a) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``December 31, 2023'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2025''.
    (b) Interagency Coordination and Support.--Paragraph (1) of section 
431(b) of such title is amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) be pre-coordinated with the Director of the Central 
        Intelligence Agency using procedures mutually agreed upon by 
        the Secretary of Defense and the Director, and, where 
        appropriate, be supported by the Director; and''.

                 TITLE XVII--CYBERSPACE-RELATED MATTERS

   Subtitle A--Matters Relating to Cyber Operations and Cyber Forces

SEC. 1701. MEASURES TO ENHANCE THE READINESS AND EFFECTIVENESS OF THE 
              CYBER MISSION FORCE.

    (a) Personnel Requirements and Training for Critical Work Roles.--
The Secretary of Defense shall--
            (1) develop a plan to require--
                    (A) a term of enlistment that is--
                            (i) common across the military departments 
                        for critical work roles of the Cyber Mission 
                        Force;
                            (ii) appropriate given the value of the 
                        training required for such work roles; and
                            (iii) sufficient and extensive enough to 
                        meet the readiness requirements established by 
                        the Commander of United States Cyber Command;
                    (B) tour lengths for personnel in the Cyber Mission 
                Force that are--
                            (i) common across the military departments; 
                        and
                            (ii) sufficient and extensive enough to 
                        meet the readiness requirements established by 
                        the Commander of United States Cyber Command;
                    (C) the military departments to present Cyber 
                Mission Force personnel to the Commander of United 
                States Cyber Command who are fully trained to the 
                standards required by the work roles established by the 
                Commander, including the critical work roles of the 
                Cyber Mission Force, prior to their attachment or 
                assignment to a unit of United States Cyber Command;
                    (D) obligated service for members who receive the 
                training contemplated in paragraph (C) which is 
                commensurate with the significant financial and time 
                investments made by the military service for the 
                training received; and
                    (E) facilitation of consecutive assignments at the 
                same unit while not inhibiting the advancement or 
                promotion potential of any member of the Armed Forces.
            (2) direct the Secretaries of the military departments to 
        implement the plan developed under paragraph (1); and
            (3) establish curriculum and capacity within one or more 
        military departments to train sufficient numbers of personnel 
        from all of the military departments who can effectively 
        perform the critical Cyber Mission Force work roles to achieve 
        the readiness requirements established by the Commander of 
        United States Cyber Command.
    (b) Pilot Program on Acquiring Contract Services for Critical Work 
Roles.--
            (1) Pilot program required.--Not later than 180 days after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commander of United 
        States Cyber Command shall commence a pilot program to assess 
        the feasibility and advisability of acquiring the services of 
        skilled personnel in the critical work roles of the Cyber 
        Mission Force by contracting with one or more persons to 
        enhance the readiness and effectiveness of the Cyber Mission 
        Force.
            (2) Pilot program duration.--The Commander shall carry out 
        the pilot program required by subsection paragraph (1) during 
        the three-year period beginning on the date of the commencement 
        of the pilot program and may, after such period--
                    (A) continue carrying out such pilot program after 
                such period for such duration as the Commander 
                considers appropriate; or
                    (B) transition such pilot program to a permanent 
                program.
    (c) Plan on Hiring, Training, and Retaining Civilians to Serve in 
Critical Work Roles.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Commander shall--
            (1) develop a plan to hire, train, and retain civilians to 
        serve in the critical work roles of the Cyber Mission Force and 
        other positions of the Cyber Mission Force to enhance the 
        readiness and effectiveness of the Cyber Mission Force; and
            (2) provide the congressional defense committees a briefing 
        on the plan developed under paragraph (1).
    (d) Definition of Critical Work Roles of the Cyber Mission Force.--
The term ``critical work roles of the Cyber Mission Force'' means work 
roles of the Cyber Mission Force relating to on-network operations, 
tool development, and exploitation analysis.

SEC. 1702. CYBER INTELLIGENCE CENTER.

    (a) Establishment of Capability Required.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall establish a dedicated cyber intelligence capability to support 
the requirements of United States Cyber Command, the other combatant 
commands, the military departments, defense agencies, the Joint Staff, 
and the Office of the Secretary of Defense for foundational, scientific 
and technical, and all-source intelligence on cyber technology 
development, capabilities, concepts of operation, operations, and plans 
and intentions of cyber threat actors.
    (b) Establishment of Center Authorized.--
            (1) Authorization.--Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary 
        may establish an all-source analysis center under the 
        administration of the Defense Intelligence Agency to provide 
        foundational intelligence for the capability established under 
        subsection (a).
            (2) Limitation.--Information technology services for a 
        center established under paragraph (1) may not be provided by 
        the National Security Agency.
    (c) Resources.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall direct and provide 
        resources to the Commander of United States Cyber Command 
        within the Military Intelligence Program to fund collection and 
        analysis by the National Security Agency to meet the specific 
        requirements established by the Commander for signals 
        intelligence support.
            (2) Transfer of activities.--The Secretary may transfer the 
        activities required under paragraph (1) to the National 
        Intelligence Program if the Director of National Intelligence 
        concurs and the transfer is specifically authorized in an 
        intelligence authorization Act.
    (d) Briefing.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Commander shall--
            (1) develop an estimate of the signals intelligence 
        collection and analysis required of the National Security 
        Agency and the cost of such collection and analysis; and
            (2) provide the congressional defense committees, the 
        Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, and the 
        Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
        Representatives a briefing on the estimate developed under 
        paragraph (1).

SEC. 1703. PERFORMANCE METRICS FOR PILOT PROGRAM FOR SHARING CYBER 
              CAPABILITIES AND RELATED INFORMATION WITH FOREIGN 
              OPERATIONAL PARTNERS.

    (a) In General.--The section 398 of title 10, United States Code 
(relating to pilot program for sharing cyber capabilities and related 
information with foreign operational partners), as added by section 
1551(a) of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263), is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections 
        (g) and (h), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
        subsection (f):
    ``(f) Performance Metrics.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall 
maintain performance metrics to track the results of sharing cyber 
capabilities and related information with foreign operational partners 
under a pilot program authorized by subsection (a).
    ``(2) The performance metrics under paragraph (1) shall include the 
following:
            ``(A) Who the cyber capability was used against.
            ``(B) The effect of the cyber capability, including whether 
        and how the transfer of the cyber capability improved the 
        operational cyber posture of the United States and achieved 
        operational objectives of the United States, or had no effect.
            ``(C) Such other outcome-based or appropriate performance 
        metrics as the Secretary considers appropriate for evaluating 
        the effectiveness of a pilot program carried out under 
        subsection (a).''.
    (b) Technical Correction.--Chapter 19 of such title is amended--
            (1) in the table of sections for such chapter by striking 
        the item relating to such section 398 and inserting the 
        following:

``398a. Pilot program for sharing cyber capabilities and related 
                            information with foreign operational 
                            partners.''; and
            (2) by redesignating such section 398 as section 398a.

SEC. 1704. NEXT GENERATION CYBER RED TEAMS.

    (a) Development and Submission of Plans.--Not later than 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Policy shall direct the appropriate Assistant Secretary of 
Defense in the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, in 
consultation with the Principal Cyber Advisors of the military 
departments, to oversee the development and submission of a plan 
described in subsection (b) to the Director of Operational Test and 
Evaluation (OT&E) and the Director of the National Security Agency 
(NSA) for assessment under subsection (c).
    (b) Plans Described.--The plan described in this subsection is a 
plan--
            (1) to modernize cyber red teams (``CRTs'') with a focus on 
        utilizing cyber threat intelligence and threat modeling to 
        ensure the ability to emulate advanced nation-state threats, 
        automation, artificial intelligence or machine learning 
        capabilities, and data collection and correlation;
            (2) to establish joint service standards and metrics to 
        ensure cyber red teams are adequately trained, staffed, and 
        equipped to emulate advanced nation-state threats; and
            (3) to expand partnerships between the Department of 
        Defense, particularly existing cyber red teams, and academia to 
        expand the cyber talent workforce.
    (c) Assessment.--The Director of Operational Test and Evaluation 
shall, in coordination with the Director of the National Security 
Agency, review the plan submitted pursuant to subsection (a) and in 
doing so shall conduct an assessment of the plan with consideration of 
the following:
            (1) Opportunities for cyber red team operations to expand 
        across the competition continuum, including during the 
        cooperation and competition phases, strongly emphasizing pre-
        conflict preparation of the battlespace to better match 
        adversary positioning and cyber activities, including 
        operational security assessments to strengthen the ability of 
        the Department to gain and maintain a tactical advantage.
            (2) The extent to which critical and emerging technologies 
        and concepts such as artificial intelligence and machine 
        learning enabled analysis and process automation can reduce the 
        amount of person hours operators spend on maintenance and 
        reporting to maximize research and training time.
            (3) Identification of training requirements, and changes to 
        training, sustainment practices, or concepts of operation or 
        employment that may be needed to ensure the effectiveness, 
        suitability, and sustainability of the next generation of cyber 
        red teams.
            (4) The extent to which additional resources or 
        partnerships may be needed to remediate personnel shortfalls in 
        cyber red teams, including funding for internship programs, 
        hiring, and contracting.
    (d) Implementation.--Not later than one year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall issue such 
policies and guidance and prescribe such regulations as the Secretary 
determines necessary to carry out the plan required by subsection (a).
    (e) Annual Reports.--Not later than January 31, 2025, and not less 
frequently than annually thereafter until January 31, 2031, the 
Director of Operational Test and Evaluation shall include in the annual 
report required by section 139(h) of title 10, United States Code, the 
following:
            (1) The findings of the Director with respect to the 
        assessment carried out pursuant to subsection (c).
            (2) The results of test and evaluation events, including 
        any resource and capability shortfalls limiting the ability of 
        cyber red teams to meet operational requirements.
            (3) The extent to which operations of cyber red teams have 
        expanded across the competition continuum, including during 
        cooperation and competition phases, to match adversary 
        positioning and cyber activities.
            (4) A summary of identified categories of common gaps and 
        shortfalls across military department and Defense Agency cyber 
        red teams.
            (5) Any identified lessons learned that would affect 
        training or operational employment decisions relating to cyber 
        red teams.

SEC. 1705. MANAGEMENT OF DATA ASSETS BY CHIEF DIGITAL OFFICER.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall, acting through the 
Chief Data and Artificial Intelligence Officer of the Department of 
Defense (CDAO), provide data assets and data analytics capabilities 
necessary for understanding the global cyber-social terrain to support 
the planning and execution of defensive and offensive information 
operations, defensive and offensive cyber operations, indications and 
warning of adversary military activities and operations, and 
calibration of actions and reactions in great power competition.
    (b) Responsibilities of Chief Data and Artificial Intelligence 
Officer.--The Chief Data and Artificial Intelligence Officer shall--
            (1) develop a baseline of data assets maintained by all 
        defense intelligence agencies, military departments, combatant 
        commands, and any other components of the Department; and
            (2) develop and oversee the implementation of plans to 
        enhance data assets that are essential to support the purposes 
        set forth in subsection (a).
    (c) Other Matters.--The Chief Data and Artificial Intelligence 
Officer shall--
            (1) designate or establish one or more executive agents for 
        enhancing data assets and the acquisition of data analytic 
        tools for users;
            (2) ensure that data assets in the possession of a 
        component of the Department are accessible for the purposes 
        described in subsection (a); and
            (3) ensure that advanced analytics, including artificial 
        intelligence technology, are developed and applied to the 
        analysis of data assets in support of the purposes described in 
        subsection (a).
    (d) Semiannual Briefings.--Not later than 120 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act and not less frequently semiannually 
thereafter, the Chief Data and Artificial Intelligence Officer shall 
provide the congressional defense committees, the Select Committee on 
Intelligence of the Senate, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
Intelligence of the House of Representatives a briefing on the 
implementation of this section.
    (e) Prior Approval Reprogramming.--After the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary may transfer funds to begin implementation 
of this section, subject to established limitations and approval 
procedures.

SEC. 1706. AUTHORITY FOR COUNTERING ILLEGAL TRAFFICKING BY MEXICAN 
              TRANSNATIONAL CRIMINAL ORGANIZATIONS IN CYBERSPACE.

    (a) Authority.--
            (1) In general.--In accordance with sections 124 and 394 of 
        title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of Defense may, in 
        coordination with other relevant Federal departments and 
        agencies and in consultation with the Government of Mexico as 
        appropriate, conduct detection, monitoring, and other 
        operations in cyberspace to counter Mexican transnational 
        criminal organizations that are engaged in any of the following 
        activities that cross the southern border of the United States:
                    (A) Smuggling of illegal drugs, controlled 
                substances, or precursors thereof.
                    (B) Human trafficking.
                    (C) Weapons trafficking.
                    (D) Other illegal activities.
            (2) Certain entities.--The authority provided by paragraph 
        (1) may be used to counter Mexican transnational criminal 
        organizations, including entities cited in the most recent 
        National Drug Threat Assessment published by the United States 
        Drug Enforcement Administration, that are engaged in the 
        activities described in (1).
    (b) Cyber Strategy for Countering Illegal Trafficking by 
Transnational Criminal Organizations Affecting the Security of United 
States Southern Border.--
            (1) Strategy required.--Not later than 60 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall, in 
        consultation with the National Cyber Director and the heads of 
        such other Federal departments and agencies as the Secretary 
        considers appropriate, submit to the appropriate congressional 
        committees a strategy for conducting operations in cyberspace 
        under subsection (a).
            (2) Elements.--The strategy submitted pursuant to paragraph 
        (1) shall include the following:
                    (A) A description of the cyberspace presence and 
                activities, including any information operations, of 
                the entities described under subsection (a)(2) pose to 
                the national security of the United States.
                    (B) A description of any previous actions taken by 
                the Department of Defense to conduct operations in 
                cyberspace to counter illegal activities by 
                transnational criminal organizations, and a description 
                of those actions.
                    (C) An assessment of the financial, technological, 
                and personnel resources that the Secretary can deploy 
                to exercise the authority provided in subsection (a) to 
                counter illegal trafficking by transnational criminal 
                organizations.
                    (D) Recommendations, if any, for additional 
                authorities as may be required to enhance the exercise 
                of the authority provided in subsection (a).
                    (E) A description of the extent to which the 
                Secretary has worked, or intends to work, with the 
                Government of Mexico, interagency partners, and the 
                private sector to enable operations in cyberspace 
                against illegal trafficking by transnational criminal 
                organizations.
                    (F) A description of the security cooperation 
                programs in effect on the day before the date of the 
                enactment of this Act that would enable the Secretary 
                to cooperate with Mexican defense partners against 
                illegal trafficking by transnational criminal 
                organizations in cyberspace.
                    (G) An assessment of the potential risks associated 
                with cooperating with Mexican counterparts against 
                transnational criminal organizations in cyberspace and 
                ways that those risks can be mitigated, including in 
                cooperation with Mexican partners.
                    (H) A description of any cooperation agreements or 
                initiatives in effect on the day before the date of the 
                enactment of this Act with interagency partners and the 
                government of Mexico to counter transnational criminal 
                organizations in cyberspace.
    (c) Quarterly Monitoring Briefing.--The Secretary shall, on a 
quarterly basis in conjunction with the briefings required by section 
484 of title 10, United States Code, provide to the appropriate 
congressional committees a briefing setting forth, for the preceding 
calendar quarter, the following:
            (1) Each country in which an operation was conducted under 
        subsection (a).
            (2) The purpose and nature of each operation set forth 
        pursuant to paragraph (1).
            (3) The start date and end date or expected duration of 
        each operation set forth pursuant to paragraph (1).
            (4) The elements of the Department of Defense down to O-6 
        command level who conducted or are conducting the operations 
        set forth pursuant to paragraph (1).
    (d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to supersede any standing prohibitions on collection of 
information on United States persons.

SEC. 1707. PILOT PROGRAM FOR CYBERSECURITY COLLABORATION CENTER 
              INCLUSION OF SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURERS.

    (a) Establishment of Pilot Program.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall, in coordination with the Director of the National Security 
Agency, establish a pilot program to assess the feasibility and 
advisability of improving the semiconductor manufacturing supply chain 
by enabling the National Security Agency Cybersecurity Collaboration 
Center to collaborate with semiconductor manufacturers in the United 
States.
    (b) Program Scope.--The pilot program established pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall focus on improving the cybersecurity of the supply 
chain for semiconductor design and manufacturing, including the 
following:
            (1) The cybersecurity of design and manufacturing 
        processes, as well as assembly, packaging, and testing.
            (2) Protecting against cyber-driven intellectual property 
        theft.
            (3) Reducing the risk of supply chain disruptions caused by 
        cyberattacks.
    (c) Eligibility.--Persons who directly support the manufacture, 
packaging, and assembly of semiconductors within the United States and 
who provide semiconductor components for the Department of Defense, 
national security systems (as defined in section 3552(b) of title 44, 
United States Code), or the defense industrial base are eligible to 
participate in the pilot program.
    (d) Briefings.--
            (1) Initial.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than one year after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                provide the appropriate committees of Congress a 
                briefing on the pilot program required under subsection 
                (a).
                    (B) Elements.--The briefing required under 
                subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
                            (i) The plans of the Secretary for the 
                        implementation of the pilot program.
                            (ii) Identification of key priorities for 
                        the pilot program.
                            (iii) Identification of any potential 
                        challenges in standing up the pilot program or 
                        impediments to semiconductor manufacturer or 
                        semiconductor component supplier participation 
                        in the pilot program.
            (2) Annual.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than one year after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act and annually 
                thereafter for the duration of the pilot program 
                required by subsection (a), the Secretary shall provide 
                the appropriate committees of Congress a briefing on 
                the progress of the pilot program.
                    (B) Elements.--Each briefing required under 
                subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
                            (i) Recommendations for addressing relevant 
                        policy, budgetary, security, and legislative 
                        gaps to increase the effectiveness of the pilot 
                        program. For the first annual briefing, this 
                        shall include an assessment of the resources 
                        necessary for the pilot to be successful.
                            (ii) Recommendations for increasing 
                        semiconductor manufacturer or semiconductor 
                        component supplier participation in the pilot 
                        program.
                            (iii) A description of the challenges 
                        encountered in carrying out the pilot program, 
                        including any concerns expressed by 
                        semiconductor manufacturers or semiconductor 
                        component supplier.
                            (iv) The findings of the Secretary with 
                        respect to the feasibility and advisability of 
                        extending or expanding the pilot program.
                            (v) Such other matters as the Secretary 
                        considers appropriate.
    (e) Termination.--The pilot program required by subsection (a) 
shall terminate on the date that is four years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (f) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Select 
        Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Permanent 
        Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
        Representatives.

SEC. 1708. INDEPENDENT EVALUATION REGARDING POTENTIAL ESTABLISHMENT OF 
              UNITED STATES CYBER FORCE AND FURTHER EVOLUTION OF 
              CURRENT MODEL FOR MANAGEMENT AND EXECUTION OF CYBER 
              MISSION.

    (a) Agreement.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall seek to 
        enter into an agreement with the National Academy of Public 
        Administration (in this section referred to as the ``National 
        Academy'') for the National Academy to conduct the evaluation 
        under subsection (b) and submit the report under subsection 
        (e).
            (2) Timing.--The Secretary shall seek to enter into the 
        agreement described in paragraph (1) by not later than 60 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Evaluation.--
            (1) In general.--Under an agreement between the Secretary 
        and the National Academy entered into pursuant to subsection 
        (a), the National Academy shall conduct an evaluation regarding 
        the advisability of--
                    (A) establishing a separate Armed Force dedicated 
                to operations in the cyber domain (in this section 
                referred to as the ``United States Cyber Force''); or
                    (B) refining and further evolving the current 
                organization approach, which is based on the Special 
                Operations Command model for United States Cyber 
                Command.
            (2) Scope.--The evaluation conducted pursuant to paragraph 
        (1) shall include consideration of--
                    (A) the potential establishment of a United States 
                Cyber Force as a separate Armed Force commensurate with 
                the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, and Space 
                Force, for the purpose of organizing, training, and 
                equipping the personnel required to enable and conduct 
                operations in the cyber domain through positions 
                aligned to the United States Cyber Command and the 
                other unified combatant commands;
                    (B) a United States Cyber Force able to devise and 
                implement recruiting and retention policies and 
                standards specific to the range of skills and career 
                fields required to enable and conduct cyberspace 
                operations, as determined by the United States Cyber 
                Command and the other unified combatant commands;
                    (C) the performance and efficacy of the Armed 
                Forces to date, and potential improvements thereto from 
                extending the model described in paragraph (1)(B), in 
                satisfying the requirements of the combatant commands 
                to enable and conduct operations in the cyber domain 
                through positions aligned to the United States Cyber 
                Command and other unified combatant commands, and any 
                expected differences in that performance based on the 
                creation of a United States Cyber Force as compared to 
                evolutionary modifications to the current model;
                    (D) the performance and efficacy of the Armed 
                Forces to date, and potential improvements thereto from 
                extending the model described in paragraph (1)(B), in 
                devising and implementing recruitment and retention 
                policies specific to the range of skills and career 
                fields required to enable and conduct cyberspace 
                operations, as determined by the United States Cyber 
                Command and the other unified combatant commands, and 
                any expected differences in that performance based on 
                the creation of a United States Cyber Force as compared 
                to evolutionary modifications to the current model;
                    (E) potential and recommended delineations of 
                responsibility between the other Armed Forces and a 
                United States Cyber Force and an enhanced model 
                described in paragraph (1)(B) with respect to network 
                management, resourcing, and operations;
                    (F) potential and recommended delineations of 
                responsibility between the other Armed Forces and a 
                United States Cyber Force and an enhancement of the 
                model described in paragraph (1)(B) for United States 
                Cyber Command with respect to organizing, training, and 
                equipping members of the Cyberspace Operations Forces, 
                not serving in positions aligned under the Cyber 
                Mission Force, to the extent necessary to support 
                network management and operations;
                    (G) views and perspectives of members of the Armed 
                Forces, in each grade, serving in the Cyber Mission 
                Force with experience in operational work roles (as 
                defined by the Commander of the United States Cyber 
                Command), and military and civilian leaders across the 
                Department regarding the establishment of a Cyber Force 
                and a further evolution of the model described in 
                paragraph (1)(B) for United States Cyber Command;
                    (H) the extent to which each of the other Armed 
                Forces is formed towards, and organized around, 
                operations within a given warfighting domain, and the 
                potential applicability of such formation and 
                organizing constructs to a United States Cyber Force 
                with respect to the cyber domain;
                    (I) findings from previous relevant assessments, 
                analyses, and studies conducted by the Secretary, the 
                Comptroller General of the United States, or other 
                entities determined relevant by the National Academy on 
                the establishment of a United States Cyber Force and a 
                further evolution of the model described in paragraph 
                (1)(B) for United States Cyber Command;
                    (J) the organizing constructs for effective and 
                operationally mature cyber forces of foreign countries 
                and the relevance of such constructs to the potential 
                creation of a United States Cyber Force and a further 
                evolution of the model described in paragraph (1)(B) 
                for United States Cyber Command;
                    (K) lessons learned from the creation of the United 
                States Space Force that should be applied to the 
                creation of a United States Cyber Force;
                    (L) recommendations for approaches to the creation 
                of a United States Cyber Force and the further 
                evolution of the model described in paragraph (1)(B) 
                for United States Cyber Command that would minimize 
                disruptions to Department of Defense cyber operations;
                    (M) the histories of the Armed Forces, including an 
                analysis of the conditions that preceded the 
                establishment of each new Armed Force established since 
                1900; and
                    (N) a comparison between the potential service 
                secretariat leadership structures for a United States 
                Cyber Force and the further evolution of the model 
                described in paragraph (1) for United States Cyber 
                Command, including establishing the United States Cyber 
                Force within an existing military department, standing 
                up a new military department, and evolving the service 
                secretary-like function of the Principal Cyber Advisor 
                in the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Policy.
            (3) Considerations.--The evaluation conducted pursuant to 
        paragraph (1) shall include an evaluation of how a potential 
        United States Cyber Force dedicated to the cyber domain would 
        compare in performance and efficacy to the current model and a 
        further evolution of the model described in paragraph (1)(B) 
        for United States Cyber Command, with respect to the following 
        functions and potential objective end states, as well as an 
        evaluation of the importance of the functions and potential end 
        states:
                    (A) Organizing, training, and equipping the size of 
                a force necessary to satisfy existing and projected 
                requirements of the Department of Defense.
                    (B) Harmonizing training requirements and programs 
                in support of cyberspace operations.
                    (C) Recruiting and retaining qualified officers and 
                enlisted members of the Armed Forces at the levels 
                necessary to execute cyberspace operations.
                    (D) Using reserve component forces in support of 
                cyberspace operations.
                    (E) Sustaining persistent force readiness.
                    (F) Generating foundational intelligence in support 
                of cyberspace operations.
                    (G) Acquiring and providing cyber capabilities in 
                support of cyberspace operations.
                    (H) Establishing pay parity among members of the 
                Armed Forces serving in and qualified for work roles in 
                support of cyberspace operations.
                    (I) Establishing pay parity among civilians serving 
                in and qualified for work roles in support of 
                cyberspace operations.
                    (J) Establishing advancement parity for members of 
                the Armed Forces serving in and qualified for work 
                roles in support of cyberspace operations.
                    (K) Establishing advancement parity for civilians 
                serving in and qualified for work roles in support of 
                cyberspace operations.
                    (L) Developing professional military education 
                content and curricula focused on the cyber domain.
    (c) Support From Federally Funded Research and Development 
Center.--
            (1) In general.--Upon a request from the National Academy, 
        the Secretary shall seek to enter into an agreement with a 
        federally funded research and development center described in 
        paragraph (2) under which such federally funded research and 
        development center shall support the National Academy in 
        conducting the evaluation under subsection (b).
            (2) Federally funded research and development center 
        described.--A federally funded research and development center 
        described in this paragraph is a federally funded research and 
        development center the staff of which includes subject matter 
        experts with appropriate security clearances and expertise in--
                    (A) cyber warfare;
                    (B) personnel management;
                    (C) military training processes; and
                    (D) acquisition management.
    (d) Access to Department of Defense Personnel, Information, and 
Resources.--Under an agreement entered into between the Secretary and 
the National Academies under subsection (a)--
            (1) the Secretary shall agree to provide to the National 
        Academy access to such personnel, information, and resources of 
        the Department of Defense as may be determined necessary by the 
        National Academy in furtherance of the conduct of the 
        evaluation under subsection (b); and
            (2) if the Secretary does not provide such access, or any 
        other major obstacle to such access occurs, the National 
        Academy shall agree to notify the congressional defense 
        committees not later than seven days after the date of such 
        refusal or other occurrence.
    (e) Report.--
            (1) Submission to congress.--Under an agreement entered 
        into between the Secretary and the National Academy under 
        subsection (a), the National Academy shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report containing the 
        findings of the National Academy with respect to the evaluation 
        under subsection (b) not later than 210 days after the date of 
        the execution of the agreement.
            (2) Prohibition against interference.--No personnel of the 
        Department of Defense, nor any other officer or employee of the 
        United States Government, may interfere, exert undue influence, 
        or in any way seek to alter the findings of the National 
        Academy specified in paragraph (1) prior to the submission 
        thereof under such paragraph.
            (3) Form.--The report under paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in an unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.

Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Department of Defense Cybersecurity and 
                         Information Technology

SEC. 1711. REQUIREMENTS FOR DEPLOYMENT OF FIFTH GENERATION INFORMATION 
              AND COMMUNICATIONS CAPABILITIES TO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              BASES AND FACILITIES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall--
            (1) develop and implement a strategy for deploying private 
        networks, based on fifth generation information and 
        communications capabilities (5G) and Open Radio Access Network 
        (ORAN) architecture, to military bases and facilities that are 
        tailored to the specific mission, security, and performance 
        requirements of those bases and facilities;
            (2) create a common, transparent, and streamlined process 
        for enabling public network service providers of fifth 
        generation information and communications capabilities to gain 
        access to military bases and facilities to provide commercial 
        subscriber services to government and contractor personnel and 
        organizations located on those bases and facilities; and
            (3) decide, on a case-by-case basis or as a common 
        requirement, whether to contract for--
                    (A) neutral hosting, whereby infrastructure and 
                services will be provided to companies deploying 
                private networks and public network services through 
                Multi-Operator Core Network architectures; or
                    (B) separate private network and public network 
                infrastructure.
    (b) International Cooperation Activities.--The Secretary may engage 
in cooperation activities with foreign allies and partners of the 
United States, using an authority provided by another provision of law, 
to inform the efficient and effective deployment of Open Radio Access 
Network architecture and to implement the strategy required under 
subsection (a)(1).
    (c) Due Date for Strategy and Briefing.--
            (1) Strategy.--The Secretary shall develop the strategy 
        required in subsection (a)(1) not later than 120 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Briefing.--Not later than 150 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall provide to the 
        congressional defense committees a briefing on the strategy 
        developed under paragraph (1) of subsection (a) and the 
        activities of the Secretary under such subsection.
    (d) Definition of Open Radio Access Network.--The term ``Open Radio 
Access Network'' means a network architecture that is modular, uses 
open interfaces, and virtualizes functionality on commodity hardware 
through software.

SEC. 1712. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INFORMATION NETWORK BOUNDARY AND 
              CROSS-DOMAIN DEFENSE.

    (a) Modernization Program Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
carry out a modernization program for network boundary and cross-domain 
defense against cyber attacks, expanding upon the fiscal year 2023 
pilot program and initial deployment to the primary Department of 
Defense internet access points (IAPs) managed by the Defense 
Information Systems Agency (DISA).
    (b) Program Phases.--
            (1) In general.--The modernization program required by 
        subsection (a) shall be implemented in phases, with the 
        objective of completing the program by October 1, 2028.
            (2) Objectives.--The phases required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following objectives:
                    (A) By the end of fiscal year 2026, completion of--
                            (i) a pilot of modernized boundary defense 
                        capabilities and initial and full deployment of 
                        the capabilities to internet access points 
                        managed by the Defense Information Systems 
                        Agency; and
                            (ii) the extension of modernized boundary 
                        defense capabilities to all additional internet 
                        access points of the Department of Defense 
                        information network (DODIN).
                    (B) By the end of fiscal year 2027, survey, pilot, 
                and deploy modernized boundary defense capabilities to 
                the access points and cross-domain capabilities of the 
                Secret Internet Protocol Network.
                    (C) By the end of fiscal year 2028, survey, pilot, 
                and deploy modernized boundary defense capabilities to 
                remaining classified networks and enclaves of the 
                Department information network.
    (c) Briefing Required.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall provide the 
congressional defense committees a briefing on--
            (1) the findings of the Secretary with respect to the pilot 
        and initial deployment under subsection (b)(2)(A)(i); and
            (2) the plans of the Secretary for the phased deployment to 
        other internet access points and classified networks pursuant 
        to subsection (b).

SEC. 1713. POLICY AND GUIDANCE ON MEMORY-SAFE SOFTWARE PROGRAMMING.

    (a) Policy and Guidance.--Not later than 270 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall develop a 
Department of Defense-wide policy and guidance in the form of a 
directive memorandum to implement the recommendations of the National 
Security Agency contained in the Software Memory Safety Cybersecurity 
Information Sheet published by the Agency in November, 2022, regarding 
memory-safe software programming languages and testing to identify 
memory-related vulnerabilities in software developed, acquired by, and 
used by the Department of Defense.
    (b) Requirements.--The policy required in subsection (a) shall--
            (1) establish the conditions and associated approval 
        processes under which a component of the Department may--
                    (A) contract for the development of custom software 
                that includes open source and reused software written 
                in programming languages that are not classified as 
                memory-safe by the Agency;
                    (B) acquire commercial software items that use 
                programming languages that are not classified as 
                memory-safe by the Agency;
                    (C) contract for software-as-a-service where the 
                contractor uses programming languages that are not 
                classified as memory-safe by the Agency; and
                    (D) develop software in Federal Government-owned 
                software factories programming languages that are not 
                classified as memory-safe by the Agency; and
            (2) establish requirements and processes for employing 
        static and dynamic application security testing that can 
        identify memory-use issues and vulnerabilities and resolve them 
        for software contracted for, developed, or acquired as 
        described in paragraph (1).
    (c) Briefing Required.--Not later than 300 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall provide the 
congressional defense committees a briefing on the policy and guidance 
developed under subsection (a).

SEC. 1714. DEVELOPMENT OF REGIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGIES.

    (a) Development of Strategies Required.--Not later than one year 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
shall, in coordination with the Commander of United States Cyber 
Command and each commander of a geographic combatant command, develop, 
for each geographic combatant command, a regional cybersecurity 
strategy to support the operations of such command.
    (b) Elements.--Each regional cybersecurity strategy developed under 
subsection (a) for a geographic combatant command shall include the 
following:
            (1) A description or an outline of methods to identify both 
        nation-state and non-state cyber threat actors.
            (2) Processes to enhance the targeting, intelligence, and 
        cyber capabilities of the combatant command.
            (3) Plans to increase the number of cyber planners embedded 
        in the combatant command.
            (4) Processes to integrate cyber forces into other warfare 
        domains.
            (5) A plan to assist, train, advise, and participate in 
        cyber capacity building with international partners.
            (6) A prioritization of cyber risks and vulnerabilities 
        within the geographic region.
            (7) Processes to coordinate cyber activities with 
        interagency partners with activities in the geographic region.
            (8) Specific plans to assist in the defense of foreign 
        infrastructure that is critical to the national security 
        interests of the United States.
            (9) Means by which the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure 
        Security Agency will be integrated into each strategy.

SEC. 1715. CYBER INCIDENT REPORTING.

    (a) Cyber Incident Reporting Requirement.--
            (1) Department governance.--Not later than 180 days after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
        shall, in consultation with the Chief Information Officer of 
        the Department of Defense, the Commander of United States Cyber 
        Command, and the Commander of the Joint Force Headquarters 
        Department of Defense Information Network--
                    (A) assign responsibility to the Commander of the 
                Joint Force Headquarters Department of Defense 
                Information Network to oversee cyber incident reporting 
                and notification of cyber incidents to Department 
                leadership;
                    (B) align policy and system requirements to enable 
                the Department to have enterprise-wide visibility of 
                cyber incident reporting to support rapid and 
                appropriate response; and
                    (C) distribute new guidance to Department personnel 
                on cyber incident reporting, which shall include 
                detailed procedures for identifying, reporting, and 
                notifying Department leadership of critical cyber 
                incidents.
            (2) Defense industrial base.--Not later than 180 days after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
        ensure that the Chief Information Officer determines what 
        actions need to be taken to encourage more complete and timely 
        mandatory cyber incident reporting from persons in the defense 
        industrial base.
            (3) Data breach notification.--The Secretary shall ensure 
        that components of the Department document instances in which 
        Department personnel affected by a privacy data breach are 
        notified of the breach within 72 hours of the discovery of the 
        breach.
    (b) Assessment on Establishing Office of Cyber Statistics.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        complete an assessment of the feasibility and suitability of 
        establishing, and resourcing required to establish, an office 
        of cyber statistics to track cyber incidents and measure the 
        response time of defense agencies and the military departments 
        to address cyber threats, risks, and vulnerabilities.
            (2) Elements.--The assessment required under paragraph (1) 
        shall include an evaluation of the feasibility, suitability, 
        and resourcing required for defense agencies and the military 
        departments--
                    (A) to collect data on the amount of time it takes 
                to detect a cyber incident;
                    (B) to respond to a cyber incident;
                    (C) to fully mitigate the risk of high-impact cyber 
                vulnerabilities;
                    (D) to recover data following a malicious cyber 
                intrusion; and
                    (E) to collect such other metrics as the Secretary 
                determines would help improve cyber incident reporting 
                practices.

SEC. 1716. MANAGEMENT BY DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OF MOBILE APPLICATIONS.

    (a) Implementation of Recommendations.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall evaluate 
        and implement to the maximum practicable extent the 
        recommendations of the Inspector General of the Department of 
        Defense with respect to managing mobile applications contained 
        in the report set forth by the Inspector General dated February 
        9, 2023, and entitled ``Management Advisory: The DoD's Use of 
        Mobile Applications'' (Report No. DODIG-2023-041).
            (2) Deadline.--The Secretary shall implement the 
        recommendations specified in subsection (a) by not later than 
        one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, unless 
        the Secretary notifies the congressional defense committees in 
        writing of specific recommendations that the Secretary chooses 
        not to implement or to implement after the date that is one 
        year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Briefing on Requirements Related to Covered Applications.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall brief the 
        congressional defense committees on actions taken by the 
        Secretary to enforce compliance with existing policy of the 
        Department of Defense that prohibits--
                    (A) the installation and use of covered 
                applications on Federal Government devices; and
                    (B) the use of covered applications on the 
                Department of Defense Information Network on personal 
                devices.
            (2) Covered applications defined.--In this subsection, the 
        term ``covered applications'' means the social networking 
        service TikTok or any successor application or service 
        developed or provided by ByteDance Limited or an entity owned 
        by ByteDance Limited.

SEC. 1717. SECURITY ENHANCEMENTS FOR THE NUCLEAR COMMAND, CONTROL, AND 
              COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK.

    (a) Required Establishment of Cross-functional Team.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        establish a cross-functional team, in accordance with section 
        911(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 10 U.S.C. 111 note), to develop 
        and direct the implementation of a threat-driven cyber defense 
        construct for systems and networks that support the nuclear 
        command, control, and communications (commonly referred to as 
        ``NC3'') mission.
            (2) Participation in the cross-functional team.--The 
        Secretary shall ensure that each of the military departments, 
        the Defense Information Systems Agency, the National Security 
        Agency, United States Cyber Command, and the Nuclear Command, 
        Control, and Communications Enterprise Center of United States 
        Strategic Command provide staff for the cross-functional team.
            (3) Scope.--The cross-functional team shall work to enhance 
        the cyber defense of the nuclear command, control, and 
        communications network during the period beginning on the date 
        of the enactment of this Act and ending on October 31, 2028, or 
        a subsequent date as the Secretary may determine.
    (b) Required Construct and Plan of Action and Milestones.--Not 
later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
head of the cross-functional team established pursuant to subsection 
(a)(1) shall develop a cyber defense construct and associated plans of 
actions and milestones to enhance the security of the systems and 
networks that support the nuclear command, control, and communications 
mission that are based on--
            (1) the application of the principles of the Zero Trust 
        Architecture approach to security;
            (2) analysis of appropriately comprehensive endpoint and 
        network telemetry data; and
            (3) control capabilities enabling rapid investigation and 
        remediation of indicators of compromise and threats to mission 
        execution.
    (c) Annual Briefings.--During the 60-day period beginning on the 
date that is 30 days before the date on which the President submits to 
Congress the budget of the President for fiscal year 2025 pursuant to 
section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, and for each of fiscal 
years 2026 through 2028, the Secretary shall provide the congressional 
defense committees a briefing on the implementation of this section.

SEC. 1718. GUIDANCE REGARDING SECURING LABORATORIES OF THE ARMED 
              FORCES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in coordination 
with the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense, the 
Chief Digital and Artificial Intelligence Officer of the Department, 
the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, and the 
Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security, issue 
guidance throughout the Department regarding methods and processes to 
secure laboratories of the Armed Forces from--
            (1) unauthorized access and intrusion;
            (2) damage to, and destruction, manipulation, or theft of, 
        physical and digital laboratory assets;
            (3) accidental or intentional release or disclosure of 
        sensitive information; and
            (4) cyber sabotage.
    (b) Methods and Processes.--At a minimum, the methods and processes 
required under subsection (a) shall include guidance to--
            (1) secure laboratory operations through zero trust 
        principles;
            (2) control access of devices to laboratory information 
        networks;
            (3) secure inventory management processes;
            (4) control or limit access to laboratories of the Armed 
        Forces to authorized individuals;
            (5) maintain the security and integrity of data libraries, 
        repositories, and other digital assets;
            (6) report and remediate cyber incidents or other 
        unauthorized intrusions;
            (7) train and educate personnel of the Department on 
        laboratory security;
            (8) develop an operations security (OPSEC) plan to secure 
        laboratory operations that can be used to implement the 
        appropriate countermeasures given the mission, assessed risk, 
        and resources available to the unit and provides guidelines for 
        implementation of routine procedures and measures to be 
        employed during daily operations or activities of the unit; and
            (9) develop and train applicable units on individualized 
        secure laboratory critical information and indicator lists to 
        aid in protecting critical information about Department 
        activities, intentions, capabilities, or limitations that an 
        adversary seeks to gain a military, political, diplomatic, 
        economic, or technological advantage.

SEC. 1719. ESTABLISHING IDENTITY, CREDENTIAL, AND ACCESS MANAGEMENT 
              INITIATIVE AS A PROGRAM OF RECORD.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish the 
Identity, Credential, and Access Management (ICAM) initiative as a 
program of record subject to milestone reviews, compliance with 
requirements, and operational testing.
    (b) Elements.--The program of record established pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall encompass, at a minimum, the following:
            (1) Correcting the authentication and credentialing 
        security weaknesses, including in the Public Key Infrastructure 
        program, identified by the Director of Operational Test and 
        Evaluation in a report submitted to Congress in April, 2023, 
        entitled ``FY14-21 Observations of the Compromise of Cyber 
        Credentials''.
            (2) Implementing improved authentication technologies, such 
        as biometric and behavioral authentication techniques and other 
        non-password-based solutions.
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than 150 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall provide the congressional 
defense committees a briefing on the parameters of the program of 
record established pursuant to subsection (a).

SEC. 1720. STRATEGY ON CYBERSECURITY RESILIENCY OF DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE SPACE ENTERPRISE.

    (a) Strategy.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in coordination 
with the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense, the 
Commander of United States Cyber Command, the Secretary of the Air 
Force, and the Commander of United States Space Command, develop and 
commence implementation of a Department-wide strategy regarding cyber 
protection activities for the Department of Defense space enterprise.
    (b) Elements.--The strategy developed and implemented pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall, at a minimum, address the following elements:
            (1) The coordination and synchronization of cyber 
        protection activities across combatant commands, the military 
        departments, and defense agencies.
            (2) The adoption and implementation of zero trust 
        architecture on legacy and new space-based systems.
            (3) How the Department will prioritize the mitigation of 
        known cyber risks and vulnerabilities to legacy and new space-
        based systems.
            (4) How the Department will accelerate the development of 
        capabilities to protect space-based systems from cyber threats.
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than 150 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall provide the congressional 
defense committees a briefing on the strategy developed and implemented 
pursuant to subsection (a).

SEC. 1721. REQUIREMENTS FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF USER ACTIVITY MONITORING 
              FOR CLEARED PERSONNEL AND OPERATIONAL AND INFORMATION 
              TECHNOLOGY ADMINISTRATORS AND OTHER PRIVILEGED USERS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall require each head 
of a component of the Department of Defense to fully implement 
directives, policies, and program requirements for user activity 
monitoring and least privilege access controls for Federal Government 
and contractor personnel granted access to classified information and 
classified networks.
    (b) Specific User Activity Control Requirements.--The Secretary 
shall require each head of a Department component to fully implement 
the detection, collection, and auditing of the following:
            (1) Sent and received emails, including sent attachments 
        and emails sent outside of Federal Government domains.
            (2) Screen captures and print jobs, with focused attention 
        on unusual volumes and times.
            (3) Accesses to World Wide Web Uniform Resource Locators 
        and uploads and downloads involving nongovernment domains.
            (4) All instances in which a user creates, copies, moves 
        to, or renames a file on removable media.
            (5) Secure file transfers, including on nonstandard ports.
            (6) Keystrokes.
            (7) Unauthorized research on user activity monitoring 
        agents and techniques to disable user activity monitoring 
        agents.
            (8) Attempts to clear event logs on devices.
            (9) Unauthorized applications being installed or run on an 
        endpoint.
            (10) Installation and use of mounted drives, including 
        serial numbers of such drives.
            (11) Initiation and control of an interactive session on a 
        remote computer or virtual machine.
            (12) Instances where monitored users are denied access to a 
        network location or resource.
            (13) Users uploading to or downloading from cloud services.
            (14) Administrative actions by privileged users, including 
        remote and after-hour administrative actions, as well as 
        document viewing, copy and paste activity, and file copying to 
        new locations.
    (c) Additional Requirements.--The Secretary shall require each head 
of a Department component to implement the following:
            (1) Automated controls to prohibit privileged user accounts 
        from performing general user activities not requiring 
        privileged access.
            (2) Two-person control whereby privileged users attempt to 
        initiate data transfers from a classified domain and removable 
        media-based data transfer activities on classified networks.
    (d) Establishing User Activity Monitoring Behavior Thresholds.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall require each head of a 
        Department component to implement standard triggers, alerts, 
        and controls developed by the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Intelligence and Security based on insider threat behavior 
        models approved by the Under Secretary.
            (2) Approval of deviations.--A head of a Department 
        component that seeks to adopt a practice pursuant to paragraph 
        (1) that deviates from standard triggers, alerts, and controls 
        described in such paragraph by being less stringent shall 
        submit to the Under Secretary a request for approval for such 
        deviation along with a written justification for such 
        deviation.
    (e) Periodic Testing.--The Secretary shall require each head of a 
Department component, not less frequently than once every two years--
            (1) to conduct insider threat testing using threat-
        realistic tactics, techniques, and procedures; and
            (2) to submit to the Under Secretary and the Director of 
        Operational Test and Evaluation a report on the findings of the 
        head with respect to the testing conducted pursuant to 
        paragraph (1).
    (f) Periodic Reviews and Updates.--The Secretary shall review and 
update the standard set of triggers, alerts, and controls described in 
subsection (d)(1) at least once every three years to account for new 
technology, new insider threat behaviors, and the results of testing 
conducted pursuant to subsection (e)(1).
    (g) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
Armed Services and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate 
and the Committee on Armed Services and the Permanent Select Committee 
on Intelligence of the House of Representatives a report on the 
implementation of the requirements of this section.
    (h) Definition of Triggers.--In this section, the term ``trigger'' 
means a set of logic statements applied to a data stream that produces 
an alert when an anomalous incident or behavior occurs.

SEC. 1722. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE DIGITAL CONTENT PROVENANCE.

    (a) Briefing.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Defense Media 
        Activity (DMA) shall provide a to the Committee on Armed 
        Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of 
        the House of Representatives a briefing on developing a course 
        of education at the Defense Information School (DINFOS) to 
        teach the practical concepts and skills needed by Department of 
        Defense public affairs, audiovisual, visual information, and 
        records management specialists.
            (2) Elements.--The briefing provided pursuant to paragraph 
        (1) shall cover the following:
                    (A) The expertise and qualifications of the 
                Department personnel who will be responsible for 
                teaching the proposed course of education.
                    (B) The list of sources that will be consulted and 
                used to develop the proposed curriculum for the course 
                of education.
                    (C) A description of the industry open technical 
                standards under subsection (b)(1)(C).
                    (D) The status of the implementation of the course 
                of education.
    (b) Course of Education Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Defense Media 
        Activity shall establish a course of education at the Defense 
        Information School to teach the practical concepts and skills 
        needed by public affairs, audiovisual, visual information, and 
        records management specialists to understand the following:
                    (A) Digital content provenance for applicable 
                Department media content.
                    (B) The challenges posed to Department missions and 
                operations by a digital content forgery.
                    (C) How existing industry open technical standards 
                may be used to authenticate the digital content 
                provenance of applicable Department media content.
            (2) Matters covered.--The course of education established 
        pursuant to paragraph (1) shall cover the following:
                    (A) The challenges to Department missions and 
                operations posed by a digital content forgery.
                    (B) The development of industry open technical 
                standards for verifying the digital content provenance 
                of applicable Department media content.
                    (C) Hands-on training techniques for capturing 
                secure and authenticated digital content for 
                documenting and communicating Department themes and 
                messages.
                    (D) Training for completing post-production tasks 
                by using industry open technical standards for digital 
                content provenance and transmitting applicable 
                Department media content in both operational and 
                nonoperational environments.
                    (E) Such other matters as the Director considers 
                appropriate.
            (3) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
        establishment of the course required in paragraph (1), the 
        Director shall provide the Committee on Armed Services of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
        Representatives a report on the following:
                    (A) The status of the development of a curriculum 
                to carry out the course of education required by 
                paragraph (1).
                    (B) The implementation plan of the Director for 
                such course of education, including the following:
                            (i) The expertise and qualifications of the 
                        Department personnel responsible for teaching 
                        the course of education.
                            (ii) The list of sources consulted and used 
                        to develop the curriculum for the course of 
                        education.
                            (iii) A description of the industry open 
                        technical standards under subsection (b)(1)(C).
                            (iv) The status of the implementation of 
                        the course of education.
                    (C) The resources available to the Director to 
                carry out this subsection and whether the Director 
                requires any additional resources to carry out this 
                subsection.
    (c) Pilot Program on Implementing Digital Content Provenance 
Standards.--
            (1) Pilot program required.--Not later than one year after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director shall 
        commence a pilot program to assess the feasibility and 
        advisability of implementing industry open technical standards 
        for digital content provenance for official Department 
        photographic and video visual documentation that is publicly 
        released by the Defense Visual Information Distribution Service 
        (DVIDS) and other distribution platforms, systems, and services 
        used by the Department.
            (2) Elements.--In carrying out the pilot program required 
        by paragraph (1), the Director shall--
                    (A) establish a process for using industry open 
                technical standards for verifying the digital content 
                provenance of applicable Department media content;
                    (B) apply technology solutions on photographs and 
                videos of the Department publicly released after the 
                date of the enactment of this section, that comport 
                with industry open technical standard for digital 
                content provenance;
                    (C) assess the feasibility and advisability of 
                applying an industry open technical standard for 
                digital content provenance on historical visual 
                information records of the Department stored at the 
                Defense Visual Information Records Center; and
                    (D) develop and apply measure of effectiveness for 
                the execution of the pilot program.
            (3) Consultation.--In carrying out the pilot program 
        required by paragraph (1), the Director may consult with 
        federally funded research and development centers, private 
        industry, academia, and such others as the Director considers 
        appropriate.
            (4) Termination.--The pilot program carried out pursuant to 
        paragraph (1) shall terminate on January 1, 2027.
            (5) Report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than January 1, 2026, 
                the Director shall submit to the Committee on Armed 
                Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed 
                Services of the House of Representatives a report on 
                the pilot program.
                    (B) Contents.--The report submitted pursuant to 
                subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
                            (i) The findings of the Director with 
                        respect to the pilot program.
                            (ii) The names of all entities the Director 
                        consulted with in carrying out the pilot 
                        program as authorized under paragraph (3).
                            (iii) Assessment of the effectiveness of 
                        the pilot.
                            (iv) A recommendation as to whether the 
                        pilot program should be made permanent.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``applicable Department media content'' means 
        the media holdings generated, stored, or controlled by the 
        Defense Media Activity.
            (2) The term ``digital content forgery'' means the use of 
        emerging technologies, including artificial intelligence and 
        machine learning techniques to fabricate or manipulate audio, 
        visual, or text content with the intent to mislead.
            (3) The term ``digital content provenance'' means the 
        verifiable chronology of the origin and history of a piece of 
        digital content, such as an image, video, audio recording, or 
        electronic document.

SEC. 1723. POST-GRADUATE EMPLOYMENT OF CYBER SERVICE ACADEMY 
              SCHOLARSHIP RECIPIENTS IN INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.

    Section 1535 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263; 10 U.S.C. 2200 note) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``, the heads of 
                the elements of the intelligence community,'' after 
                ``the Secretary of Homeland Security''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``Department of 
                Defense Cyber and Digital Service Academy'' and 
                inserting ``Cyber Service Academy''; and
            (2) in subsection (d), by inserting ``or an element of the 
        intelligence community'' after ``missions of the Department'';
            (3) in subsection (e)--
                    (A) by striking ``Secretary'' each place it appears 
                and inserting ``head concerned''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``, or within an element of the 
                intelligence community, as the case may be'' after 
                ``United States Code'';
            (4) in subsections (h), (j), and (k), by striking 
        ``Secretary'' each place it appears and inserting ``head 
        concerned''; and
            (5) by adding at the end of the following new subsections:
    ``(p) Interagency Considerations.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall enter 
        into an agreement with the head of an element of the 
        intelligence community to allow a scholarship recipient to 
        satisfy the recipient's post-award employment obligations under 
        this section by working for an element of the intelligence 
        community that is not part of the Department of Defense if the 
        head of that element agrees to reimburse the Department of 
        Defense for the scholarship program costs associated with that 
        scholarship recipient.
            ``(2) Limitations.--(A) A scholarship recipient may not 
        serve the recipient's post-award employment obligation under 
        this section at an element of the intelligence community that 
        is not part of the Department of Defense before an agreement 
        under paragraph (1) is reached.
            ``(B) Not more than 10 percent of scholarship recipients in 
        each class may be placed in positions outside the Department of 
        Defense unless the Secretary certifies that the Department of 
        Defense cannot facilitate a placement within the Department of 
        Defense.
    ``(q) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `head concerned' means--
                    ``(A) The Secretary of Defense, with respect to 
                matters concerning the Department of Defense; or
                    ``(B) the head of an element of the intelligence 
                community, with respect to matters concerning that 
                element.
            ``(2) The term `intelligence community' has the meaning 
        given such term in section 3 of the National Security Act of 
        1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).''.

SEC. 1724. MINIMUM NUMBER OF SCHOLARSHIPS TO BE AWARDED ANNUALLY 
              THROUGH CYBER SERVICE ACADEMY.

    Section 1535(c) of the James M. Inhofe National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263; 10 U.S.C. 
2200 note) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(5) Minimum number of scholarship awards.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
                award not fewer than 1,000 scholarships through the 
                Program in fiscal year 2026 and in each fiscal year 
                thereafter.
                    ``(B) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense may award 
                fewer than the number of scholarships required under 
                subparagraph (A) in a fiscal year if the Secretary 
                determines and notifies the congressional defense 
                committees that fewer scholarships are necessary to 
                address workforce needs.''.

SEC. 1725. CONTROL AND MANAGEMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE DATA AND 
              ESTABLISHMENT OF CHIEF DIGITAL AND ARTIFICIAL 
              INTELLIGENCE OFFICER GOVERNING COUNCIL.

    (a) Control and Management of Department of Defense Data.--The 
Chief Digital and Artificial Intelligence Officer of the Department of 
Defense shall maintain the authority, but not the requirement, to 
access and control, on behalf of the Secretary of Defense, of all data 
collected, acquired, accessed, or utilized by Department of Defense 
components consistent with section 1513 of the James M. Inhofe National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263; 10 
U.S.C. 4001 note).
    (b) Chief Digital and Artificial Intelligence Officer Governing 
Council.--Paragraph (3) of section 238(d) of the John S. McCain 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 
115-232; 10 U.S.C. note prec. 4061) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(3) Chief digital and artificial intelligence officer 
        governing council.--
                    ``(A) Establishment.--(i) The Secretary shall 
                establish a council to provide policy oversight to 
                ensure the responsible, coordinated, and ethical 
                employment of data and artificial intelligence 
                capabilities across Department of Defense missions and 
                operations.
                    ``(ii) The council established pursuant to clause 
                (i) shall be known as the `Chief Digital and Artificial 
                Intelligence Officer Governing Council' (in this 
                paragraph the `Council').
                    ``(B) Membership.--The Council shall be composed of 
                the following:
                            ``(i) Joint Staff J-6.
                            ``(ii) The Under Secretary of Defense for 
                        Acquisition and Sustainment.
                            ``(iii) The Under Secretary of Defense for 
                        Research and Evaluation.
                            ``(iv) The Under Secretary of Defense for 
                        Intelligence and Security.
                            ``(v) The Under Secretary of Defense for 
                        Policy.
                            ``(vi) The Director of Cost Analysis and 
                        Program Evaluation.
                            ``(vii) The Chief Information Officer of 
                        the Department.
                            ``(viii) The Director of Administration and 
                        Management.
                            ``(ix) The service acquisition executives 
                        of each of the military departments.
                    ``(C) Head of council.--The Council shall be headed 
                by the Chief Digital and Artificial Intelligence 
                Officer of the Department.
                    ``(D) Meetings.--The Council shall meet not less 
                frequently than twice each fiscal year.
                    ``(E) Duties of council.--The duties of the Council 
                are as follows:
                            ``(i) To streamline the organizational 
                        structure of the Department as it relates to 
                        artificial intelligence development, 
                        implementation, and oversight.
                            ``(ii) To improve coordination on 
                        artificial intelligence governance with the 
                        defense industry sector.
                            ``(iii) To establish and oversee artificial 
                        intelligence guidance on ethical requirements 
                        and protections for usage of artificial 
                        intelligence supported by Department funding 
                        and reduces or mitigates instances of 
                        unintended bias in artificial intelligence 
                        algorithms.
                            ``(iv) To identify, monitor, and 
                        periodically update appropriate recommendations 
                        for operational usage of artificial 
                        intelligence.
                            ``(v) To review, as the head of the Council 
                        considers necessary, artificial intelligence 
                        program funding to ensure that any Department 
                        investment in an artificial intelligence tool, 
                        system, or algorithm adheres to all Department 
                        established policy related to artificial 
                        intelligence.
                            ``(vi) To provide periodic status updates 
                        on the efforts of the Department to develop and 
                        implement artificial intelligence into existing 
                        Department programs and processes.
                            ``(vii) To provide guidance on access and 
                        distribution restrictions relating to data, 
                        models, tool sets, or testing or validation 
                        infrastructure.
                            ``(viii) to implement and oversee a data 
                        and artificial intelligence educational program 
                        for the purpose of familiarizing the Department 
                        at all levels on the applications of artificial 
                        intelligence in their operations.
                            ``(ix) To implement and oversee a data 
                        decree scorecard.
                            ``(x) Such other duties as the Council 
                        determines appropriate.
                    ``(F) Periodic reports.--Not later than 180 days 
                after the date of the enactment of the National Defense 
                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 and not less 
                frequently than once every 18 months thereafter, the 
                Council shall submit to the Secretary and the 
                congressional defense committees a report on the 
                activities of the Council during the period covered by 
                the report.''.

SEC. 1726. REQUIREMENT TO SUPPORT FOR CYBER EDUCATION AND WORKFORCE 
              DEVELOPMENT AT INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER LEARNING.

    (a) Authority.--The Secretary of Defense shall support the 
development of foundational expertise in critical cyber operational 
skills at institutions of higher learning, selected by the Secretary 
under subsection (b), for current and future members of the Armed 
Forces and civilian employees of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Selection.--The Secretary shall select institutions of higher 
learning to receive support under subsection (a) from among 
institutions of higher learning that meet the following eligibility 
criteria:
            (1) The institution offers a program from beginning through 
        advanced skill levels to provide future military and civilian 
        leaders of the Armed Forces with operational cyber expertise.
            (2) The institution includes instruction and practical 
        experiences that lead to recognized certifications and degrees 
        in the cyber field.
            (3) The institution has and maintains an educational 
        partnership with an active component of the Armed Forces or a 
        Department component designed to facilitate the development of 
        critical cyber skills for students who may pursue a military 
        career.
            (4) The institution is located in close proximity to a 
        military installation with a cyber mission defined by the 
        Department or the Armed Forces.
    (c) Support.--Under subsection (a), the Secretary shall provide, at 
a minimum, to each institution of higher learning selected by the 
Secretary under subsection (b) the following support for civilian and 
military leaders of the Department transitioning into cyber fields at 
the Department:
            (1) Expansion of cyber educational programs focused on 
        enhancing such transition.
            (2) Hands-on cyber opportunities, including laboratories 
        and security operations centers.
            (3) Direct financial assistance to civilian and military 
        students at the Department to increase access to courses and 
        hands-on opportunities under paragraphs (1) and (2).
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $10,000,000 for fiscal year 
2024.

SEC. 1727. IMPROVEMENTS RELATING TO CYBER PROTECTION SUPPORT FOR 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PERSONNEL IN POSITIONS HIGHLY 
              VULNERABLE TO CYBER ATTACK.

    Section 1645 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 10 U.S.C. 2224 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by inserting ``and personal accounts'' 
                        after ``personal technology devices''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``and shall provide such 
                        support to any such personnel who request the 
                        support'' after ``in paragraph (2)''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2)(B), by inserting ``or personal 
                accounts'' after ``personal technology devices'';
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``or personal 
                accounts'' after ``personal technology devices''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and networks'' 
                and inserting ``, personal networks, and personal 
                accounts''; and
            (3) by striking subsections (d) and (e) and inserting the 
        following new subsection (d):
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `personal accounts' means accounts for 
        online and telecommunications services, including telephone, 
        residential internet access, email, text and multimedia 
        messaging, cloud computing, social media, health care, and 
        financial services, used by Department of Defense personnel 
        outside of the scope of their employment with the Department.
            ``(2) The term `personal technology devices ' means 
        technology devices used by Department of Defense personnel 
        outside of the scope of their employment with the Department 
        and includes networks to which such devices connect.''.

SEC. 1728. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON EFFORTS TO PROTECT PERSONAL 
              INFORMATION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PERSONNEL FROM 
              EXPLOITATION BY FOREIGN ADVERSARIES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall brief the appropriate congressional committees on Department of 
Defense efforts to protect personal information of its personnel from 
exploitation by foreign adversaries.
    (b) Elements.--The briefing required under subsection (a) shall 
include any observations on the following elements:
            (1) An assessment of efforts by the Department of Defense 
        to protect the personal information, including location data 
        generated by smart phones, of members of the Armed Forces, 
        civilian employees of the Department of Defense, veterans, and 
        their families from exploitation by foreign adversaries.
            (2) Recommendations to improve Department of Defense 
        policies and programs to meaningfully address this threat.
    (c) Report.--The Comptroller General shall publish on its website 
an unclassified report, which may contain a classified annex submitted 
to the congressional defense and intelligence committees, on the 
elements described in subsection (b) at a time mutually agreed upon.
    (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees.--In this section, the 
term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (1) the congressional defense committees;
            (2) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
            (3) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        House of Representatives.

             TITLE XVIII--SPACE FORCE PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT

SEC. 1801. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Space Force Personnel Management 
Act''.

SEC. 1802. SPACE FORCE PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT ACT TRANSITION PLAN.

    (a) Conditions Required for Enactment.--
            (1) In general.--None of the authorities provide by this 
        title shall take effect until the later of--
                    (A) the Secretary of the Air Force--
                            (i) certifies to the congressional defense 
                        committees that any State National Guard 
                        affected by the transfer of units, personnel 
                        billets, equipment, and resources into the 
                        Space Force will be made whole by the transfer 
                        of additional assets under the control of the 
                        Secretary of the Air Force into the affected 
                        State National Guard; and
                            (ii) submits to the congressional defense 
                        committees a report that includes a transition 
                        plan to move all units, personnel billets, 
                        equipment, and resources performing core Space 
                        Force functions, under the operational control 
                        of the Space Force, or otherwise integral to 
                        the Space Force mission that may exist in the 
                        reserve components of the Department of the Air 
                        Force into the Space Force; and
                    (B) one year after the Secretary of Defense 
                provides the briefing on the study required under 
                section 1703(c).
            (2) Elements.--The transition plan required under paragraph 
        (1)(B) shall include the following elements:
                    (A) An identification of any units, personnel 
                billets, equipment, and resources currently residing in 
                the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard that will 
                be transferred into the Space Force, including, for 
                items currently in the Air National Guard, a breakdown 
                of assets by State.
                    (B) A timeline for the implementation of the 
                authorities provided by this title.
                    (C) An explanation of any units personnel billets, 
                equipment, and resources transferred between the 
                Regular Air Force, Air Force Reserve, Air National 
                Guard, and Space Force, including, for any assets 
                transferred into or out of the Air National Guard, a 
                breakdown of transfers by State.
    (b) Personnel Protections.--
            (1) In general.--In enacting the authorities provided by 
        this title, the Secretary of the Air Force shall not require 
        any currently serving member of the Air National Guard to 
        enlist or commission into the Space Force.
            (2) Job placement.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall 
        provide employment opportunities within the Air National Guard 
        to any currently serving member of the Air National Guard who, 
        as a direct result of the enactment of this title, declines to 
        affiliate with the Space Force.
            (3) Space force affiliation.--The Secretary of the Air 
        Force shall guarantee in writing that any member of the Air 
        National Guard who joins the Space Force as a result of the 
        enactment of this title will not lose rank or pay upon 
        transferring to the Space Force.
    (c) National Guard Protections.--The Secretary of the Air Force 
shall ensure that no State National Guard loses Federal resources, 
including net personnel billets and Federal funding, as a result of the 
enactment of the authorities provided by this title.

SEC. 1803. COMPREHENSIVE ASSESSMENT OF SPACE FORCE EQUITIES IN THE 
              NATIONAL GUARD.

    (a) Study Required.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter 
into an agreement with a Federally funded research and development 
center under which such center will conduct an independent study to 
assess the feasibility and advisability of moving all units, personnel 
billets, equipment, and resources performing core space functions, 
under the operational control of the Space Force, or otherwise integral 
to the Space Force mission that may exist in the National Guard and 
into a single-component Space Force and provide to the Secretary a 
report on the findings of the study. The conduct of such study shall 
include the following elements:
            (1) An analysis and recommendations associated with at 
        least the three following possible courses of action:
                    (A) Maintaining the current model in which the Air 
                National Guard has units and personnel performing core 
                space functions.
                    (B) Transitioning such units and personnel to the 
                Space Force.
                    (C) The creation of a new National Guard component 
                of the Space Force.
            (2) A cost-benefit analysis for each of the analyzed 
        courses of action.
            (3) With respect to the course of action described in 
        paragraph (1)(B), an analysis of the ideal personnel, units, 
        and resources that could be transitioned to the respective Air 
        National Guards of States that may lose space-related 
        personnel, units, and resources as a result of the 
        consolidation of space-related personnel, units, and resources 
        into the Space Force component.
    (b) Deadline for Completion.--An agreement entered into pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall specify that the study conducted under the 
agreement shall be completed by not later than February 1, 2025.
    (c) Briefing and Report.--
            (1) In general.--Upon completion of a study conducted under 
        an agreement entered into pursuant to subsection (a), the 
        Secretary shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of 
        the Senate and House of Representatives a briefing and report 
        on the findings of the study, including a description of any 
        proposed personnel, unit, or resource realignments related to 
        the creation of the Space Force single component or recommended 
        by such study.
            (2) Classification of report.--The report required under 
        paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may 
        include classified appendices as required.

  Subtitle A--Space Force Military Personnel System Without Component

SEC. 1811. ESTABLISHMENT OF MILITARY PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM FOR 
              THE SPACE FORCE.

    Title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subtitle:

          ``Subtitle F--Alternative Military Personnel Systems

                         ``PART I--SPACE FORCE

``Chap.
``2001. Space Force Personnel System .......................      20001
``2003. Status and Participation ...........................      20101
``2005. Officers............................................      20201
``2007. Enlisted Members ...................................      20301
``2009. Retention and Separation Generally..................      20401
``2011. Separation of Officers for Substandard Performance        20501
                            of Duty or for Certain Other 
                            Reasons .
``2013. Retirement .........................................      20601

              ``CHAPTER 2001--SPACE FORCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM

``Sec.
``20001. Single military personnel management system.
``20002. Members: duty status.
``20003. Members: minimum service requirement as applied to Space 
                            Force.
``Sec. 20001. Single military personnel management system
    ``Members of the Space Force shall be managed through a single 
military personnel management system, without component.''.

SEC. 1812. COMPOSITION OF THE SPACE FORCE WITHOUT COMPONENT.

    (a) Composition of the Space Force.--Section 9081(b) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (1);
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs 
        (1) and (2), respectively; and
            (3) in paragraph (1), as so redesignated, by striking ``, 
        including'' and all that follows through ``emergency''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the date of the certification by the Secretary of the 
Air Force under section 1745.

SEC. 1813. DEFINITIONS FOR SINGLE PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM FOR THE 
              SPACE FORCE.

    (a) Space Force Definitions.--Section 101 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (e), (f), and (g) as 
        subsections (f), (g), and (h), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
        subsection (e):
    ``(e) Space Force.--The following definitions relating to members 
of the Space Force apply in this title:
            ``(1) The term `Space Force active status' means the status 
        of a member of the Space Force who is not in a Space Force 
        inactive status and is not retired.
            ``(2) The term `Space Force inactive status' means the 
        status of a member of the Space Force who is designated by the 
        Secretary of the Air Force, under regulations prescribed by the 
        Secretary, as being in a Space Force inactive status.
            ``(3) The term `Space Force retired status' means the 
        status of a member of the Space Force who--
                    ``(A) is receiving retired pay; or
                    ``(B) but for being under the eligibility age 
                applicable under section 12731 of this title, would be 
                eligible for retired pay under chapter 1223 of this 
                title.
            ``(4) The term `sustained duty' means full-time duty by a 
        member of the Space Force ordered to such duty by an authority 
        designated by the Secretary of the Air Force--
                    ``(A) in the case of an officer--
                            ``(i) to fulfill the terms of an active-
                        duty service commitment incurred by the officer 
                        under any provision of law; or
                            ``(ii) with the consent of the officer; and
                    ``(B) in the case of an enlisted member, with the 
                consent of the enlisted member as specified in the 
                terms of the member's enlistment or reenlistment 
                agreement.''.
    (b) Amendments to Existing Duty Status Definitions.--Subsection (d) 
of such section is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``, including sustained 
        duty in the Space Force'' after ``United States''; and
            (2) in paragraph (7), by inserting ``, or a member of the 
        Space Force,'' after ``Reserves'' both places it appears.

SEC. 1814. BASIC POLICIES RELATING TO SERVICE IN THE SPACE FORCE.

    Chapter 2001 of title 10, United States Code, as added by section 
1711, is amended by adding at the end the following new sections:
``Sec. 20002. Members: duty status
    ``Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Air Force, 
each member of the Space Force shall be placed in one of the following 
duty statuses:
            ``(1) Space Force active status.
            ``(2) Space Force inactive status.
            ``(3) Space Force retired status.
``Sec. 20003. Members: minimum service requirement as applied to Space 
              Force
    ``(a) Inapplicability of Active/reserve Service Distinction.--In 
applying section 651 of this title to a person who becomes a member of 
the Space Force, the provisions of the second sentence of subsection 
(a) and of subsection (b) of that section (relating to service in a 
reserve component) are inapplicable.
    ``(b) Treatment Upon Transfer Out of Space Force.--A member of the 
Space Force who transfers to one of the other armed forces before 
completing the service required by subsection (a) of section 651 of 
this title shall upon such transfer be subject to section 651 of this 
title in the same manner as if such member had initially entered the 
armed force to which the member transfers.''.

SEC. 1815. STATUS AND PARTICIPATION.

    Subtitle F of title 10, United States Code, as added by section 
1711, is amended by adding at the end the following new chapter:

                ``CHAPTER 2003--STATUS AND PARTICIPATION

``Sec.
``20101. Members in Space Force active status: amount of annual 
                            training or active duty service required.
``20102. Individual ready guardians: designation; mobilization 
                            category.
``20103. Members not on sustained duty: agreements concerning 
                            conditions of service.
``20104. Orders to active duty: with consent of member.
``20105. Sustained duty.
``20106. Orders to active duty: without consent of member.
``20107. Transfer to inactive status: initial service obligation not 
                            complete.
``20108. Members of Space Force: credit for service for purposes of 
                            laws providing pay and benefits for 
                            members, dependents, and survivors.
``20109. Policy for order to active duty based upon determination by 
                            Congress.
``Sec. 20101. Members in Space Force active status: amount of annual 
              training or active duty service required
    ``Except as specifically provided in regulations prescribed by the 
Secretary of Defense, a member of the Space Force in a Space Force 
active status who is not serving on sustained duty shall be required 
to--
            ``(1) participate in at least 48 scheduled drills or 
        training periods during each year and serve on active duty for 
        not less than 14 days (exclusive of travel time) during each 
        year; or
            ``(2) serve on active duty for not more than 30 days during 
        each year.
``Sec. 20102. Individual ready guardians: designation; mobilization 
              category
    ``(a) In General.--Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of 
Defense, the Secretary of the Air Force may designate a member of the 
Space Force in a Space Force active status as an Individual Ready 
Guardian.
    ``(b) Mobilization Category.--
            ``(1) In general.--Among members of the Space Force 
        designated as Individual Ready Guardians, there is a category 
        of members (referred to as a `mobilization category') who, as 
        designated by the Secretary of the Air Force, are subject to 
        being ordered to active duty without their consent in 
        accordance with section 20106(a) of this title.
            ``(2) Limitations on placement in mobilization category.--A 
        member designated as an Individual Ready Guardian may not be 
        placed in the mobilization category referred to in paragraph 
        (1) unless--
                    ``(A) the member volunteers to be placed in that 
                mobilization category; and
                    ``(B) the member is selected by the Secretary of 
                the Air Force, based upon the needs of the Space Force 
                and the grade and military skills of that member.
            ``(3) Limitation on time in mobilization category.--A 
        member of the Space Force in a Space Force active status may 
        not remain designated an Individual Ready Guardian in such 
        mobilization category after the end of the 24-month period 
        beginning on the date of the separation of the member from 
        active service.
            ``(4) Designation of grades and military skills or 
        specialties.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall designate 
        the grades and military skills or specialties of members to be 
        eligible for placement in such mobilization category.
            ``(5) Benefits.--A member in such mobilization category 
        shall be eligible for benefits (other than pay and training) on 
        the same basis as are available to members of the Individual 
        Ready Reserve who are in the special mobilization category 
        under section 10144(b) of this title, as determined by the 
        Secretary of Defense.
``Sec. 20103. Members not on sustained duty: agreements concerning 
              conditions of service
    ``(a) Agreements.--The Secretary of the Air Force may enter into a 
written agreement with a member of the Space Force not on sustained 
duty--
            ``(1) requiring the member to serve on active duty for a 
        definite period of time;
            ``(2) specifying the conditions of the member's service on 
        active duty; and
            ``(3) for a member serving in a Space Force inactive 
        status, specifying the conditions for the member's continued 
        service as well as order to active duty with and without the 
        consent of the member.
    ``(b) Conditions of Service.--An agreement under subsection (a) 
shall specify the conditions of service. The Secretary of the Air Force 
shall prescribe regulations establishing--
            ``(1) what conditions of service may be specified in the 
        agreement;
            ``(2) the obligations of the parties; and
            ``(3) the consequences of failure to comply with the terms 
        of the agreement.
    ``(c) Authority for Retention on Active Duty During War or National 
Emergency.--If the period of service on active duty of a member under 
an agreement under subsection (a) expires during a war or during a 
national emergency declared by Congress or the President, the member 
concerned may be kept on active duty, without the consent of the 
member, as otherwise prescribed by law.
``Sec. 20104. Orders to active duty: with consent of member
    ``(a) Authority.--A member of the Space Force who is serving in a 
Space Force active status and is not on sustained duty, or who is 
serving in a Space Force inactive status, may, with the consent of the 
member, be ordered to active duty, or retained on active duty, under 
the following sections of chapter 1209 of this title in the same manner 
as applies to a member of a reserve component ordered to active duty, 
or retained on active duty, under that section with the consent of the 
member:
            ``(1) Section 12301(d), relating to orders to active duty 
        at any time with the consent of the member.
            ``(2) Section 12301(h), relating to orders to active duty 
        in connection with medical or health care matters.
            ``(3) Section 12322, relating to active duty for health 
        care.
            ``(4) Section 12323, relating to active duty pending line 
        of duty determination required for response to sexual assault.
    ``(b) Applicable Provisions of Law.--The following sections of 
chapter 1209 of this title pertaining to a member of a reserve 
component ordered to active duty with the consent of the member apply 
to a member of the Space Force who is ordered to active duty under this 
section in the same manner as to such a reserve component member:
            ``(1) Section 12308, relating to retention after becoming 
        qualified for retired pay.
            ``(2) Section 12309, relating to use of Reserve officers in 
        expansion of armed forces.
            ``(3) Section 12313, relating to release of reserve members 
        from active duty.
            ``(4) Section 12314, relating to kinds of duty.
            ``(5) Section 12315, relating to duty with or without pay.
            ``(6) Section 12316, relating to payment of certain 
        Reserves while on duty.
            ``(7) Section 12318, relating to duties and funding of 
        reserve members on active duty.
            ``(8) Section 12320, relating to grade in which ordered to 
        active duty.
            ``(9) Section 12321, relating to a limitation on number of 
        reserve members assigned to Reserve Officer Training Corps 
        units.
``Sec. 20105. Sustained duty
    ``(a) Enlisted Members.--An authority designated by the Secretary 
of the Air Force may order an enlisted member of the Space Force in a 
Space Force active status to sustained duty, or retain an enlisted 
member on sustained duty, with the consent of that member, as specified 
in the terms of the member's enlistment or reenlistment agreement.
    ``(b) Officers.--(1) An authority designated by the Secretary of 
the Air Force may order a Space Force officer in a Space Force active 
status to sustained duty--
            ``(A) with the consent of the officer; or
            ``(B) to fulfill the terms of an active-duty service 
        commitment incurred by the officer under any provision of law.
    ``(2) An officer ordered to sustained duty under paragraph (1) may 
not be released from sustained duty without the officer's consent 
except as provided in chapter 2009 or 2011 of this title.
``Sec. 20106. Orders to active duty: without consent of member
    ``(a) Members in a Space Force Active Status.--(1) A member of the 
Space Force in a Space Force active status who is not on sustained 
duty, may, without the consent of the member, be ordered to active duty 
or inactive duty in the same manner as a member of a reserve component 
ordered to active duty or inactive duty under the provisions of chapter 
1209 of this title and any other provision of law authorizing the order 
to active duty of a member of a reserve component in an active status 
without the consent of the member.
    ``(2) The provisions of chapter 1209 of this title, or other 
applicable provisions of law, pertaining to a member of the Ready 
Reserve when ordered to active duty shall apply to a member of the 
Space Force who is in a Space Force active status when ordered to 
active duty under paragraph (1).
    ``(3) The provisions of section 12304 of this title pertaining to 
members in the Individual Ready Reserve mobilization category shall 
apply to a member of the Space Force who is designated an Individual 
Ready Guardian when ordered to active duty who meets the provisions of 
section 20102(b) of this title.
    ``(b) Members in a Space Force Inactive Status.--(1) A member of 
the Space Force in a Space Force inactive status may be ordered to 
active duty under--
            ``(A) the provisions of chapter 1209 of this title;
            ``(B) any other provision of law authorizing the order to 
        active duty of a member of a reserve component in an inactive 
        status; and
            ``(C) the terms of any agreement entered into by the member 
        under section 20103 of this title.
    ``(2) The provisions of chapter 1209 of this title, or other 
applicable provisions of law, pertaining to the Standby Reserve shall 
apply to a member of the Space Force who is in a Space Force inactive 
service when ordered to active duty.
    ``(c) Members in a Space Force Retired Status.--(1) Chapters 39 and 
1209 of this title include provisions authorizing the order to active 
duty of a member of the Space Force in a Space Force retired status.
    ``(2) The provisions of sections 688, 688a, and 12407 of this title 
pertaining to a retired member or a member of the Retired Reserve shall 
apply to a member of the Space Force in a Space Force retired status 
when ordered to active duty.
    ``(3) The provisions of section 689 of this title pertaining to a 
retired member ordered to active duty shall apply to a member of the 
Space Force in a Space Force retired status who is ordered to active 
duty.
    ``(d) Other Applicable Provisions.--The following provisions of 
chapter 1209 of this title pertaining shall apply to a member of the 
Space Force ordered to active duty in the same manner as to a Reserve 
or member of the Retired Reserve ordered to active duty:
            ``(1) Section 12305, relating to the authority of the 
        President to suspend certain laws relating to promotion, 
        retirement, and separation.
            ``(2) Section 12308, relating to retention after becoming 
        qualified for retired pay.
            ``(3) Section 12313, relating to release from active duty.
            ``(4) Section 12314, relating to kinds of duty.
            ``(5) Section 12315, relating to duty with or without pay.
            ``(6) Section 12316, relating to payment of certain 
        Reserves while on duty.
            ``(7) Section 12317, relating to theological students; 
        limitations.
            ``(8) Section 12320, relating to grade in which ordered to 
        active duty.
``Sec. 20107. Transfer to inactive status: initial service obligation 
              not complete
    ``(a) General Rule.--A member of the Space Force who has not 
completed the required minimum service obligation referred to in 
section 20003 of this title shall, if terminating Space Force active 
status, be transferred to a Space Force inactive status and, unless 
otherwise designated an Individual Ready Guardian under section 20102 
of this title, shall remain subject to order to active duty without the 
member's consent under section 20106 of this title.
    ``(b) Exception.--Subsection (a) does not apply to a member who is 
separated from the Space Force by the Secretary of the Air Force under 
section 20503 of this title.
``Sec. 20108. Members of Space Force: credit for service for purposes 
              of laws providing pay and benefits for members, 
              dependents, and survivors
    ``For the purposes of laws providing pay and benefits for members 
of the Armed Forces and their dependents and beneficiaries:
            ``(1) Military training, duty, or other service performed 
        by a member of the Space Force in a Space Force active status 
        not on sustained duty shall be considered military training, 
        duty, or other service, as the case may be, as a member of a 
        reserve component.
            ``(2) Sustained duty performed by a member of the Space 
        Force under section 20105 of this title shall be considered 
        active duty as a member of a regular component.
            ``(3) Active duty performed by a member of the Space Force 
        in a Space Force active status not on sustained duty shall be 
        considered active duty as a member of a reserve component.
            ``(4) Inactive-duty training performed by a member of the 
        Space Force shall be considered inactive-duty training as a 
        member of a reserve component.
``Sec. 20109. Policy for order to active duty based upon determination 
              by Congress
    ``Whenever Congress determines that more units and organizations 
capable of conducting space operations are needed for the national 
security than are available among those units comprised of members of 
the Space Force serving on active duty, members of the Space Force not 
serving on active duty shall be ordered to active duty and retained as 
long as so needed.''.

SEC. 1816. OFFICERS.

    (a) Original Appointments.--Subtitle F of title 10, United States 
Code, as amended by section 1715, is further amended by adding at the 
end the following new chapter:

                        ``CHAPTER 2005--OFFICERS

``Subchapter                                                       Sec.
``I. Original appointments..................................      20201
``II. Selection boards......................................      20211
``III. Promotions...........................................      20231
``IV. Persons not considered for promotion and other              20241
                            promotion-related provisions.
``V. Applicability of other laws............................      20251

                 ``SUBCHAPTER I--ORIGINAL APPOINTMENTS

``Sec.
``20201. Original appointments: how made.
``20202. Original appointments: qualifications.
``20203. Original appointments: service credit.
``Sec. 20201. Original appointments: how made
    ``The provisions of section 531 of this title shall apply to 
original appointments of commissioned officers in the Space Force.
``Sec. 20202. Original appointments: qualifications
    ``(a) In General.--An original appointment as a commissioned 
officer in the Space Force may be given only to a person who--
            ``(1) is a citizen of the United States;
            ``(2) is at least 18 years of age; and
            ``(3) has such other physical, mental, moral, professional, 
        and age qualifications as the Secretary of the Air Force may 
        prescribe by regulation.
    ``(b) Exception.--A person who is otherwise qualified, but who has 
a physical condition that the Secretary of the Air Force determines 
will not interfere with the performance of the duties to which that 
person may be assigned, may be appointed as an officer in the Space 
Force.
``Sec. 20203. Original appointments: service credit
    ``The provisions of section 533 of this title shall apply to the 
crediting of prior active commissioned service for original 
appointments of commissioned officers.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments Relating to Original Appointments.--
            (1) Definitions.--Section 101 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended in subsection (b)(10) by inserting before the 
        period at the end the following: ``and, with respect to the 
        appointment of a member of the armed forces in the Space Force, 
        refers to that member's most recent appointment in the Space 
        Force that is neither a promotion nor a demotion''.
            (2) Original appointments of commissioned officers.--
        Section 531 of such title is amended by striking ``Regular'' 
        before ``Space Force'' each place it appears.
            (3) Qualifications for original appointment as a 
        commissioned officer.--Section 532(a) of such title is amended 
        by striking ``Regular Marine Corps, or Regular Space Force'' 
        and inserting ``or Regular Marine Corps''.
            (4) Service credit upon original appointment as a 
        commissioned officer.--Section 533 of such title is amended by 
        striking ``Regular'' before ``Space Force'' each place it 
        appears.
    (c) Selection Boards and Promotions.--Chapter 205 of title 10, 
United States Code, as added by subsection (a), is amended by adding at 
the end the following new subchapters:

                   ``SUBCHAPTER II--SELECTION BOARDS

``Sec.
``20211. Convening of selection boards.
``20212. Composition of selection boards.
``20213. Notice of convening of selection boards.
``20214. Information furnished to selection boards.
``20215. Recommendations for promotion by selection boards.
``20216. Reports of selection boards.
``20217. Action on reports of selection boards for promotion to 
                            brigadier general or major general.
``Sec. 20211. Convening of selection boards
    ``(a) In General.--Whenever the needs of the service require, the 
Secretary of the Air Force shall convene selection boards to recommend 
for promotion to the next higher permanent grade officers of the Space 
Force in each permanent grade from first lieutenant through brigadier 
general.
    ``(b) Exception for Officers in Grade of First Lieutenant.--
Subsection (a) does not require the convening of a selection board in 
the case of Space Force officers in the permanent grade of first 
lieutenant when the Secretary of the Air Force recommends for promotion 
to the grade of captain under section 20238(a)(4)(A) of this title all 
such officers whom the Secretary finds to be fully qualified for 
promotion.
    ``(c) Section 20404 Selection Boards.--The Secretary of the Air 
Force may convene selection boards to recommend officers for early 
retirement under section 20404(a) of this title or for discharge under 
section 20404(b) of this title.
    ``(d) Regulations.--The convening of selection boards under 
subsection (a) shall be under regulations prescribed by the Secretary 
of the Defense.
``Sec. 20212. Composition of selection boards --
    ``(a) Appointment and Composition of Boards.--
            ``(1) In general.--Members of a selection board shall be 
        appointed by the Secretary of Air Force in accordance with this 
        section. A selection board shall consist of five or more 
        officers of the Space Force. Each member of a selection board 
        must be serving in a grade higher than the grade of the 
        officers under consideration by the board, except that no 
        member of a board may be serving in a grade below major. The 
        members of a selection board shall include at least one member 
        serving on sustained duty and at least one member in a Space 
        Force active status who is not serving on sustained duty. The 
        ratio of the members of a selection board serving on sustained 
        duty to members serving in a Space Force active status not on 
        sustained duty shall, to the extent practicable, reflect the 
        ratio of officers serving in each of those statuses who are 
        being considered for promotion by the board. The members of a 
        selection board shall represent the diverse population of the 
        Space Force to the extent practicable.
            ``(2) Representation from competitive categories.--(A) 
        Except as provided in subparagraph (B), a selection board shall 
        include at least one officer from each competitive category of 
        officers to be considered by the board.
            ``(B) A selection board need not include an officer from a 
        competitive category when there are no officers of that 
        competitive category on the Space Force officer list in a grade 
        higher than the grade of the officers to be considered by the 
        board and eligible to serve on the board.
            ``(3) Retired officers.--If qualified officers on the Space 
        Force officer list are not available in sufficient number to 
        comprise a selection board, the Secretary of the Air Force 
        shall complete the membership of the board by appointing as 
        members of the board--
                    ``(A) Space Force officers who hold a grade higher 
                than the grade of the officers under consideration by 
                the board and who are retired officers; and
                    ``(B) if sufficient Space Force officers are not 
                available pursuant to subparagraph (A), Air Force 
                officers who hold a grade higher than the grade of the 
                officers under consideration by the board and who are 
                retired officers, but only if the Air Force officer to 
                be appointed to the board has served in a space-related 
                career field of the Air Force for sufficient time such 
                that the Secretary of the Air Force determines that the 
                retired Air Force officer has adequate knowledge 
                concerning the standards of performance and conduct 
                required of an officer of the Space Force.
            ``(4) Exclusion of retired general officers on active duty 
        to serve on a board from numeric general officer active-duty 
        limitations.--A retired general officer who is on active duty 
        for the purpose of serving on a selection board shall not, 
        while so serving, be counted against any limitation on the 
        number of general and flag officers who may be on active duty.
    ``(b) Limitation on Membership on Consecutive Boards.--
            ``(1) General rule.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
        no officer may be a member of two successive selection boards 
        convened under section 20211 of this title for the 
        consideration of officers of the same grade.
            ``(2) Exception for general officer boards.--Paragraph (1) 
        does not apply with respect to selection boards convened under 
        section 20211 of this title for the consideration of officers 
        in the grade of colonel or brigadier general.
    ``(c) Joint Qualified Officers.--(1) Each selection board convened 
under section 20211 of this title that will consider an officer 
described in paragraph (2) shall include at least one officer 
designated by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff who is a joint 
qualified officer.
    ``(2) Paragraph (1) applies with respect to an officer who--
            ``(A) is serving on, or has served on, the Joint Staff; or
            ``(B) is a joint qualified officer.
    ``(3) The Secretary of Defense may waive the requirement in 
paragraph (1) for any selection board of the Space Force.
``Sec. 20213. Notice of convening of selection boards
    ``(a) Notice to Eligible Officers.--At least 30 days before a 
selection board is convened under section 20211 of this title to 
recommend officers in a grade for promotion to the next higher grade, 
the Secretary of the Air Force shall--
            ``(1) notify in writing the officers eligible for 
        consideration for promotion of the date on which the board is 
        to convene and the name and date of rank of the junior officer, 
        and of the senior officer, in the promotion zone as of the date 
        of the notification; or
            ``(2) issue a general written notice to the Space Force 
        regarding the convening of the board which shall include the 
        convening date of the board and the name and date of rank of 
        the junior officer, and of the senior officer, in the promotion 
        zone as of the date of the notification.
    ``(b) Communication From Officers.--An officer eligible for 
consideration by a selection board convened under section 20211 of this 
title (other than an officer who has been excluded under section 
20231(d) of this title from consideration by the board) may send a 
written communication to the board, to arrive not later than 10 
calendar days before the date on which the board convenes, calling 
attention to any matter concerning the officer that the officer 
considers important to the officer's case. The selection board shall 
give consideration to any timely communication under this subsection.
    ``(c) Notice of Intent of Certain Officers To Serve on or Off 
Active Duty.--An officer on the Space Force officer list in the grade 
of colonel or brigadier general who receives a notice under subsection 
(a) shall inform the Secretary of the officer's preference to serve 
either on or off active duty if promoted to the grade of brigadier 
general or major general, respectively.
``Sec. 20214. Information furnished to selection boards
    ``The provisions of section 615 of this title shall apply to 
information furnished to selection boards.
``Sec. 20215. Recommendations for promotion by selection boards
    ``The provisions of section 616 of this title shall apply to 
recommendations for promotion by selection boards.
``Sec. 20216. Reports of selection boards
    ``The provisions of section 617 of this title shall apply to 
reports of selection boards.
``Sec. 20217. Action on reports of selection boards for promotion to 
              brigadier general or major general
    ``The provisions of section 618 of this title shall apply to action 
on reports of selection boards.

                      ``SUBCHAPTER III--PROMOTIONS

``Sec.
``20231. Eligibility for consideration for promotion: time-in-grade and 
                            other requirements.
``20232. Eligibility for consideration for promotion: designation as 
                            joint qualified officer required before 
                            promotion to brigadier general; exceptions.
``20233. Opportunities for consideration for promotion.
``20234. Space Force officer list.
``20235. Competitive categories.
``20236. Numbers to be recommended for promotion.
``20237. Establishment of promotion zones.
``20238. Promotions: how made; authorized delay of promotions.
``Sec. 20231. Eligibility for consideration for promotion: time-in-
              grade and other requirements
    ``(a) Time-in-grade Requirements.--(1) An officer who is in a Space 
Force active status on the Space Force officer list and holds a 
permanent appointment in the grade of second lieutenant or first 
lieutenant may not be promoted to the next higher permanent grade until 
the officer has completed the following period of service in the grade 
in which the officer holds a permanent appointment:
            ``(A) Eighteen months, in the case of an officer holding a 
        permanent appointment in the grade of second lieutenant.
            ``(B) Two years, in the case of an officer holding a 
        permanent appointment in the grade of first lieutenant.
    ``(2) Subject to paragraph (5), an officer who is in a Space Force 
active status on the Space Force officer list and holds a permanent 
appointment in a grade above first lieutenant may not be considered for 
selection for promotion to the next higher permanent grade until the 
officer has completed the following period of service in the grade in 
which the officer holds a permanent appointment:
            ``(A) Three years, in the case of an officer holding a 
        permanent appointment in the grade of captain, major, or 
        lieutenant colonel.
            ``(B) One year, in the case of an officer holding a 
        permanent appointment in the grade of colonel or brigadier 
        general.
    ``(3) When the needs of the service require, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may prescribe a longer period of service in grade for 
eligibility for promotion, in the case of officers to whom paragraph 
(1) applies, or for eligibility for consideration for promotion, in the 
case of officers to whom paragraph (2) applies.
    ``(4) When the needs of the service require, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may prescribe a shorter period of service in grade, but not 
less than two years, for eligibility for consideration for promotion, 
in the case of officers designated for limited duty to whom paragraph 
(2) applies.
    ``(5) The Secretary of the Air Force may waive paragraph (2) to the 
extent necessary to assure that officers described in subparagraph (A) 
of such paragraph have at least two opportunities for consideration for 
promotion to the next higher grade as officers below the promotion 
zone.
    ``(6) In computing service in grade for purposes of this section, 
service in a grade held as a result of assignment to a position is 
counted as service in the grade in which the officer would have served 
except for such assignment or appointment.
    ``(b) Continued Eligibility for Consideration for Promotion of 
Officers Who Have Previously Failed of Selection.--(1) Except as 
provided in paragraph (2), an officer who has failed of selection for 
promotion to the next higher grade remains eligible for consideration 
for promotion to that grade as long as the officer continues on active 
duty in other than a retired status and is not promoted.
    ``(2) Paragraph (1) does not apply to an officer on active status 
who is ineligible for consideration for promotion under section 631(c) 
of this title for the second time.
    ``(c) Officers To Be Considered by Promotion Boards.--(1) Each time 
a selection board is convened under section 20211 of this title for 
consideration of officers in a competitive category for promotion to 
the next higher grade, each officer in the promotion zone (except as 
provided under paragraph (2)), and each officer above the promotion 
zone, for the grade and competitive category under consideration shall 
be considered for promotion.
    ``(2) The Secretary of the Air Force--
            ``(A) may, in accordance with standards and procedures 
        prescribed by the Secretary of Defense in regulations which 
        shall apply uniformly among the military departments, limit the 
        officers to be considered by a selection board from below the 
        promotion zone to those officers who are determined to be 
        exceptionally well qualified for promotion;
            ``(B) may, by regulation, prescribe a period of time, not 
        to exceed one year, from the time an officer on the Space Force 
        officer list transfers on or off of sustained duty during which 
        the officer shall be ineligible for consideration for 
        promotion; and
            ``(C) may, by regulation, preclude from consideration by a 
        selection board by which the officer would otherwise be 
        eligible to be considered, an officer who has an established 
        separation date that is within 90 days after the date on which 
        the board is to be convened.
    ``(3)(A) The Secretary of Defense may authorize the Secretary of 
the Air Force to preclude from consideration by selection boards for 
promotion to the grade of brigadier general, officers in the grade of 
colonel who--
            ``(i) have been considered and not selected for promotion 
        to the grade of brigadier general or by at least two selection 
        boards; and
            ``(ii) are determined, in accordance with standards and 
        procedures prescribed pursuant to subparagraph (B), as not 
        being exceptionally well qualified for promotion.
    ``(B) If the Secretary of Defense authorizes the Secretary of the 
Air Force to have the authority described in subparagraph (A), the 
Secretary shall prescribe by regulation the standards and procedures 
for the exercise of such authority. Those regulations shall apply 
uniformly among the military departments and shall include the 
following provisions:
            ``(i) A requirement that the Secretary of the Air Force may 
        exercise such authority in the case of a particular selection 
        board only if the Secretary of Defense approves the exercise of 
        that authority for that board.
            ``(ii) A requirement that an officer may be precluded from 
        consideration by a selection board under this paragraph only 
        upon the recommendation of a preselection board of officers 
        convened by the Secretary of the military department concerned 
        and composed of at least three officers all of whom are serving 
        in a grade higher than the grade of such officer.
            ``(iii) A requirement that such a preselection board may 
        not recommend that an officer be precluded from such 
        consideration unless the Secretary of the Air Force has given 
        the officer advance written notice of the convening of such 
        board and of the military records that will be considered by 
        the board and has given the officer a reasonable period before 
        the convening of the board in which to submit comments to the 
        board.
            ``(iv) A requirement that the Secretary of the Air Force 
        shall provide general guidance to the board in accordance with 
        standards and procedures prescribed by the Secretary of Defense 
        in those regulations.
            ``(v) A requirement that the preselection board may 
        recommend that an officer be precluded from consideration by a 
        selection board only on the basis of the general guidance 
        provided by the Secretary Air Force, information in the 
        officer's official military personnel records that has been 
        described in the notice provided the officer as required 
        pursuant to clause (iii), and any communication to the board 
        received from that officer before the board convenes.
    ``(d) Certain Officers Not To Be Considered.--A selection board 
convened under section 20211 of this title may not consider for 
promotion to the next higher grade any of the following officers:
            ``(1) An officer whose name is on a promotion list for that 
        grade as a result of the officer's selection for promotion to 
        that grade by an earlier selection board convened under that 
        section.
            ``(2) An officer who is recommended for promotion to that 
        grade in the report of an earlier selection board convened 
        under that section, in the case of such a report that has not 
        yet been approved by the President.
            ``(3) An officer in the grade of first lieutenant who is on 
        an approved all-fully-qualified-officers list under section 
        20238(a)(4) of this title.
            ``(4) An officer in the grade of captain who is not a 
        citizen of the United States.
            ``(5) An officer excluded under subsection (e).
    ``(e) Authority To Allow Officers To Opt Out of Selection Board 
Consideration.--(1) The Secretary of the Air Force may provide that an 
officer on the Space Force officer list may, upon the officer's request 
and with the approval of the Secretary, be excluded from consideration 
by a selection board convened under section 20211 of this title to 
consider officers for promotion to the next higher grade.
    ``(2) The Secretary of the Air Force may only approve a request 
under paragraph (1) if--
            ``(A)(i) the basis for the request is to allow an officer 
        to complete a broadening assignment, advanced education, 
        another assignment of significant value to the Department, a 
        career progression requirement delayed by the assignment or 
        education;
            ``(ii) the Secretary determines the exclusion from 
        consideration is in the best interest of the Space Force; and
            ``(iii) the officer has not previously failed of selection 
        for promotion to the grade for which the officer requests the 
        exclusion from consideration; or
            ``(B)(i) the officer is serving in a critical skill 
        position that cannot be filled by another Space Force officer 
        serving in the same grade;
            ``(ii) the Secretary determines that it is in the best 
        interests of the Space Force for the officer to continue to 
        serve in their current position and grade; and
            ``(iii) the officer has not previously opted out of a 
        promotion board under this authority.
``Sec. 20232. Eligibility for consideration for promotion: designation 
              as joint qualified officer required before promotion to 
              brigadier general; exceptions
    ``The provisions of section 619a of this title shall apply to 
officers of the Space Force.
``Sec. 20233. Opportunities for consideration for promotion
    ``(a) Specification of Number of Opportunities for Consideration 
for Promotion.--Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of 
Defense, the Secretary of the Air Force shall specify the number of 
opportunities for consideration for promotion to be afforded to Space 
Force officers for promotion to each grade above the grade of captain.
    ``(b) Limitation on Number of Opportunities That May Be 
Specified.--The number of opportunities for consideration for promotion 
to be afforded officers of the Space Force for promotion to a 
particular grade may not exceed five.
    ``(c) Limited Authority of Secretary of the Air Force To Modify 
Number of Opportunities.--The Secretary of the Air Force may change the 
number of opportunities for consideration for promotion to a particular 
grade not more frequently than once every five years.
    ``(d) Authority of Secretary of Defense To Modify Number of 
Opportunities.--The Secretary of Defense may modify the number of 
opportunities for consideration for promotion to be afforded officers 
of the Space Force for promotion to a particular grade.
``Sec. 20234. Space Force officer list
    ``(a) Single List.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall maintain a 
single list of all Space Force officers serving in a Space Force active 
status. The list shall be known as the Space Force officer list.
    ``(b) Order of Officers on List.--Officers shall be carried on the 
Space Force officer list in the order of seniority of the grade in 
which they are serving. Officers serving in the same grade shall be 
carried in the order of their rank in that grade.
    ``(c) Effect of Service in a Temporary Appointment.--An officer 
whose position on the Space Force officer list results from service 
under a temporary appointment or in a grade held by reason of 
assignment to a position has, when that appointment or assignment ends, 
the grade and position on the Space Force officer list that the officer 
would have held if the officer had not received that appointment or 
assignment.
``Sec. 20235. Competitive categories
    ``(a) Requirement To Establish Competitive Categories for 
Promotion.--Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, 
the Secretary of the Air Force shall establish at least one competitive 
category for promotion for officers on the Space Force officer list. 
Each officer whose name appears on the Space Force officer list shall 
be carried in a competitive category of officers. Officers in the same 
competitive category shall compete among themselves for promotion.
    ``(b) Single Competitive Category for Promotion to General Officer 
Grades.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall establish a single 
competitive category for all officers on the Space Force officer list 
who will be considered by a selection board convened under section 
20211 of this title for promotion to the grade of brigadier general or 
major general.
``Sec. 20236. Numbers to be recommended for promotion
    ``(a) Promotion to Grades Below Brigadier General.--(1) Before 
convening a selection board under section 20211 of this title to 
consider officers for recommendation for promotion to a grade below 
brigadier general and in any competitive category, the Secretary of the 
Air Force shall determine--
            ``(A) the number of positions needed to accomplish mission 
        objectives which require officers of that competitive category 
        in the grade to which the board will recommend officers for 
        promotion;
            ``(B) the estimated number of officers needed to fill 
        vacancies in those positions during the period in which it is 
        anticipated that officers selected for promotion will be 
        promoted; and
            ``(C) the number of officers in a Space Force active status 
        authorized by the Secretary of the Air Force to serve both on 
        sustained duty and not on sustained duty in the grade and 
        competitive category under consideration.
    ``(2) Based on the determinations under paragraph (1), the 
Secretary of the Air Force shall determine the maximum number of 
officers in that competitive category which the selection board may 
recommend for promotion.
    ``(b) Promotion to Brigadier General and Major General.--(1) Before 
convening a selection board under section 20211 of this title to 
consider officers for recommendation for promotion to the grade of 
brigadier general or major general, the Secretary of the Air Force 
shall determine--
            ``(A) the number of positions needed to accomplish mission 
        objectives which require officers serving in a Space Force 
        active status on sustained duty, and in a Space Force active 
        status not on sustained duty, in the grade to which the board 
        will recommend officers for promotion; and
            ``(B) the estimated number of officers on sustained duty 
        and not on sustained duty needed to fill vacancies in those 
        positions over the 24-month period beginning on the date on 
        which the selection board convenes.
    ``(2) Based on the determinations under paragraph (1), the 
Secretary of the Air Force shall determine the maximum number of 
officers serving in a Space Force active status on sustained duty, and 
the maximum number of officers serving in a Space Force active status 
not on sustained duty, which the selection board may recommend for 
promotion.
``Sec. 20237. Establishment of promotion zones
    ``(a) In General.--Before convening a selection board under section 
20211 of this title to consider officers for promotion to any grade 
above first lieutenant or lieutenant (junior grade), the Secretary of 
the Air Force shall establish a promotion zone for officers serving in 
each grade and competitive category to be considered by the board.
    ``(b) Determination of Number.--The Secretary of the Air Force 
shall determine the number of officers in the promotion zone for 
officers serving in any grade and competitive category from among 
officers who are eligible for promotion in that grade and competitive 
category. Such determination shall be made on the basis of an estimate 
of--
            ``(1) the number of officers needed in that competitive 
        category in the next higher grade in each of the next five 
        years;
            ``(2) the number of officers to be serving in that 
        competitive category in the next higher grade in each of the 
        next five years;
            ``(3) in the case of a promotion zone for officers to be 
        promoted to a grade to which section 523 of this title is 
        applicable, the number of officers authorized for such grade 
        under such section to be on active duty on the last day of each 
        of the next five fiscal years; and
            ``(4) the number of officers that should be placed in that 
        promotion zone in each of the next five years to provide to 
        officers in those years relatively similar opportunity for 
        promotion.
``Sec. 20238. Promotions: how made; authorized delay of promotions
    ``(a) Procedure for Promotion of Officers on an Approved Promotion 
List.--
            ``(1) Placement of names on promotion list.--When the 
        report of a selection board convened under section 20211 of 
        this title is approved by the President, the Secretary of the 
        Air Force shall place the names of all officers approved for 
        promotion within a competitive category on a single list for 
        that competitive category, to be known as a promotion list, in 
        the order of the seniority of such officers on the list or 
        based on particular merit, as determined by the promotion 
        board. A promotion list is considered to be established under 
        this section as of the date of the approval of the report of 
        the selection board under the preceding sentence.
            ``(2) Order and timing of promotions.--Except as provided 
        in subsection (d), officers on a promotion list for a 
        competitive category shall be promoted to the next higher grade 
        when additional officers in that grade and competitive category 
        are needed. Promotions shall be made in the order in which the 
        names of officers appear on the promotion list and after 
        officers previously selected for promotion in that competitive 
        category have been promoted. Officers to be promoted to the 
        grade of first lieutenant shall be promoted in accordance with 
        regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Air Force.
            ``(3) Limitation on promotions to general officer grades to 
        comply with strength limitations.--Under regulations prescribed 
        by the Secretary of Defense, the promotion of an officer on the 
        Space Force officer list to a general officer grade shall be 
        delayed if that promotion would cause any strength limitation 
        of section 526 of this title to be exceeded. The delay shall 
        expire when the Secretary of the Air Force determines that the 
        delay is no longer required to ensure compliance with the 
        strength limitation.
            ``(4) Promotion of first lieutenants on an all-fully-
        qualified officers list.--(A) Except as provided in subsection 
        (d), officers on the Space Force officer list in the grade of 
        first lieutenant who are on an approved all-fully-qualified-
        officers list shall be promoted to the grade of captain in 
        accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the 
        Air Force.
            ``(B) An all-fully-qualified-officers list shall be 
        considered to be approved for purposes of subparagraph (A) when 
        the list is approved by the President. When so approved, such a 
        list shall be treated in the same manner as a promotion list 
        under this chapter.
            ``(C) The Secretary of the Air Force may make a 
        recommendation to the President for approval of an all-fully-
        qualified-officers list only when the Secretary determines that 
        all officers on the list are needed in the next higher grade to 
        accomplish mission objectives.
            ``(D) For purposes of this paragraph, an all-fully-
        qualified-officers list is a list of all officers on the Space 
        Force officers list in a grade who the Secretary of the Air 
        Force determines--
                    ``(i) are fully qualified for promotion to the next 
                higher grade; and
                    ``(ii) would be eligible for consideration for 
                promotion to the next higher grade by a selection board 
                convened under section 20211 of this title upon the 
                convening of such a board.
            ``(E) If the Secretary of the Air Force determines that one 
        or more officers or former officers were not placed on an all-
        fully-qualified-list under this paragraph because of 
        administrative error, the Secretary may prepare a supplemental 
        all-fully-qualified-officers list containing the names of any 
        such officers for approval in accordance with this paragraph.
    ``(b) Date of Rank.--The date of rank of an officer appointed to a 
higher grade under this section is determined under section 741(d) of 
this title.
    ``(c) Appointment Authority.--Appointments under this section shall 
be made by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the 
Senate, except that appointments under this section in the grade of 
first lieutenant or captain shall be made by the President alone.
    ``(d) Authority To Delay Appointments for Specified Reasons.--The 
provisions of subsection (d) of section 624 of this title shall apply 
to the appointment of an officer under this section in the same manner 
as they apply to an appointment of an officer under that section, and 
any reference in that subsection to an active-duty list shall be 
treated for purposes of applicability to an officer of the Space Force 
as referring to the Space Force officer list.

    ``SUBCHAPTER IV--PERSONS NOT CONSIDERED FOR PROMOTION AND OTHER 
                      PROMOTION-RELATED PROVISIONS

``Sec.
``20241. Persons not considered for promotion and other promotion-
                            related provisions.
``Sec. 20241. Persons not considered for promotion and other promotion-
              related provisions
    ``Subchapter III of chapter 36 of this title shall apply to 
officers of the Space Force.

              ``SUBCHAPTER V--APPLICABILITY OF OTHER LAWS

``Sec.
``20251. Applicability of certain DOPMA officer personnel policy 
                            provisions.
``Sec. 20251. Applicability of certain DOPMA officer personnel policy 
              provisions
    ``Except as otherwise modified or provided for in this chapter, the 
following provisions of chapter 36 of this title (relating to 
promotion, separation, and involuntary retirement of officers on the 
active-duty list) shall apply to Space Force officers and officer 
promotions:
            ``(1) Subchapter I (relating to selection boards).
            ``(2) Subchapter II (relating to promotions).
            ``(3) Subchapter III (relating to failure of selection for 
        promotion and retirement for years of service).
            ``(4) Subchapter IV (relating to continuation on active 
        duty and selective early retirement).
            ``(5) Subchapter V (additional provisions relating to 
        promotion, separation, and retirement).
            ``(6) Subchapter VI (relating to alternative promotion 
        authority for officers in designated competitive 
        categories).''.
    (d) Temporary (``brevet'') Promotions for Officers With Critical 
Skills.--Section 605 of title 10, United States Code, is amended as 
follows:
            (1) Coverage of space force officers.--Subsections (a), 
        (b)(2)(A), (f)(1), and (f)(2) are amended by striking ``or 
        Marine Corps,'' each place it appears and inserting ``Marine 
        Corps, or Space Force,''.
            (2) Disaggregation of air force maximum numbers.--
        Subsection (g) is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as 
                paragraphs (4) and (5), respectively; and
                    (B) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the 
                following new paragraphs (2) and (3):
            ``(2) In the case of the Air Force--
                    ``(A) as captain, 95;
                    ``(B) as major, 305;
                    ``(C) as lieutenant colonel, 165; and
                    ``(D) as colonel, 75.
            ``(3) In the case of the Space Force--
                    ``(A) as captain, 5;
                    ``(B) as major, 20;
                    ``(C) as lieutenant colonel, 10; and
                    ``(D) as colonel, 5.''.

SEC. 1817. ENLISTED MEMBERS.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle F of title 10, United States Code, as 
amended by section 1716, is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new chapter:

                    ``CHAPTER 2007--ENLISTED MEMBERS

``Sec.
``20301. Original enlistments: qualifications; grade.
``20302. Enlisted members: term of enlistment.
``20303. Reference to chapter 31.
``Sec. 20301. Original enlistments: qualifications; grade
    ``(a) Original Enlistments.--
            ``(1) Authority to accept.--The Secretary of the Air Force 
        may accept original enlistments in the Space Force of 
        qualified, effective, and able-bodied persons.
            ``(2) Age.--A person accepted for original enlistment shall 
        be not less than seventeen years of age. However, no person 
        under eighteen years of age may be originally enlisted without 
        the written consent of the person's parent or guardian, if the 
        person has a parent or guardian entitled to the person's 
        custody and control.
    ``(b) Grade.--A person is enlisted in the Space Force in the grade 
prescribed by the Secretary of the Air Force.
``Sec. 20302. Enlisted members: term of enlistment
    ``(a) Term of Original Enlistments.--The Secretary of the Air Force 
may accept original enlistments of persons for the duration of their 
minority or for a period of at least two but not more than eight years 
in the Space Force.
    ``(b) Term of Reenlistments.--The Secretary of the Air Force may 
accept a reenlistment in the Space Force for a period determined in 
accordance with paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) of section 505(d) of this 
title.
``Sec. 20303. Reference to chapter 31
    ``For other provisions of this title applicable to enlistments in 
the Space Force, see chapter 31 of this title.''.
    (b) Amendments to Title 10 Chapter Relating to Enlistments.--
Chapter 31 of such title is amended as follows:
            (1) Recruiting campaigns.--Section 503(a) is amended by 
        striking ``and Regular Coast Guard'' and inserting ``Regular 
        Coast Guard, and the Space Force''.
            (2) Qualifications, term, grade.--Section 505 is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``Regular Space Force,'' each place 
                it appears; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                subsection:
    ``(e) For enlistments in the Space Force, see sections 20301 and 
20302 of this title.''.
            (3) Extension of enlistments during war.--Section 506 is 
        amended by striking ``Regular'' before ``Space Force''.
            (4) Reenlistment.--Section 508 is amended striking 
        ``Regular'' before ``Space Force'' both places it appears.
            (5) Enlistment incentives for pursuit of skills to 
        facilitate national service.--Section 510(c) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``or the Space 
                Force'' after ``Selected Reserve''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3)--
                            (i) by redesignating subparagraphs (D) and 
                        (E) as subparagraphs (E) and (F), respectively;
                            (ii) by inserting after subparagraph (C) 
                        the following new subparagraph (D):
                    ``(D) in the Space Force;''; and
                            (iii) in subparagraph (F), as so 
                        redesignated, by striking ``subparagraphs (A) 
                        through (D)'' and inserting ``subparagraphs (A) 
                        through (E)''.
            (6) College first program.--Section 511(b)(1)(A) is amended 
        by inserting ``or as a member of the Space Force,'' after 
        ``reserve component,''.
            (7) Delayed entry program.--Section 513(a) is amended--
                    (A) by inserting, ``, or who is qualified under 
                section 20301 of this title and applicable regulations 
                for enlistment in the Space Force,'' after ``armed 
                force''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``, or be enlisted as a member of 
                the Space Force,'' after ``Coast Guard Reserve''.
            (8) Effect upon enlisted status of acceptance of 
        appointment as cadet or midshipman.--Section 516(b) is amended 
        by inserting ``or in the Space Force,'' after ``armed force''.

SEC. 1818. RETENTION AND SEPARATION GENERALLY.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle F of title 10, United States Code, as 
amended by section 1717, is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new chapter:

           ``CHAPTER 2009--RETENTION AND SEPARATION GENERALLY

``Sec.
``20401. Applicability of certain provisions of law related to 
                            separation.
``20402. Enlisted members: standards and qualifications for retention.
``20403. Officers: standards and qualifications for retention.
``20404. Selection of officers for early retirement or discharge.
``20405. Force shaping authority.
``Sec. 20401. Applicability of certain provisions of law related to 
              separation
    ``(a) Officer Separation.--Except as specified in this section or 
otherwise modified in this chapter, the provisions of chapter 59 of 
this title applicable to officers of a regular component shall apply to 
officers of the Space Force.
    ``(b) Enlisted Member Separation.--Except as specified in this 
section or otherwise modified in this chapter, the provisions of 
chapter 59 of this title applicable to enlisted members of a regular 
component shall apply to enlisted members of the Space Force.
    ``(c) Separation Pay Upon Involuntary Discharge or Release From 
Active Duty.--The provisions of section 1174 of this title--
            ``(1) pertaining to a regular officer shall apply to a 
        Space Force officer serving on sustained duty;
            ``(2) pertaining to a regular enlisted member shall apply 
        to an enlisted member of the Space Force serving on sustained 
        duty; and
            ``(3) pertaining to other members shall apply to members of 
        the Space Force not serving on sustained duty.
    ``(d) Voluntary Separation Incentive.--The provisions of section 
1175 of this title pertaining to a voluntary appointment, enlistment, 
or transfer to a reserve component shall apply to the voluntary release 
from active duty of a member of the Space Force on sustained duty.
    ``(e) Voluntary Separation Pay and Benefits.--The provisions of 
section 1176 of this title--
            ``(1) pertaining to a regular enlisted member shall apply 
        to an enlisted member of the Space Force serving on sustained 
        duty; and
            ``(2) pertaining to a reserve enlisted member serving in an 
        active status shall apply to an enlisted member of the Space 
        Force serving in a Space Force active status or on sustained 
        duty.
``Sec. 20402. Enlisted members: standards and qualifications for 
              retention
    ``(a) Standards and Qualifications for Retention.--Subject to such 
limitations as the Secretary of Defense may prescribe, the Secretary of 
the Air Force shall, by regulation, prescribe--
            ``(1) standards and qualifications for the retention of 
        enlisted members of the Space Force; and
            ``(2) equitable procedures for the periodic determination 
        of the compliance of each such member with those standards and 
        qualifications.
    ``(b) Effect of Failure To Comply With Standards and 
Qualifications.--If an enlisted member serving in Space Force active 
status fails to comply with the standards and qualifications prescribed 
under subsection (a), the member shall--
            ``(1) if qualified, be transferred to Space Force inactive 
        status;
            ``(2) if qualified, be retired in accordance with section 
        20603 of this title; or
            ``(3) have the member's enlistment terminated.
``Sec. 20403. Officers: standards and qualifications for retention
    ``(a) Standards and Qualifications.--To be retained in an active 
status, a Space Force officer must--
            ``(1) in any applicable yearly period, attain the number of 
        points specified under section 12732(a)(2) of this title; and
            ``(2) conform to such other standards and qualifications as 
        the Secretary may prescribe for officers of the Space Force.
    ``(b) Result of Failure To Comply.--A Space Force officer who fails 
to attain the number of points prescribed under subsection (a)(1), or 
to conform to the standards and qualifications prescribed under 
subsection (a)(2), may be referred to a board convened under section 
20501(a) of this title.
``Sec. 20404. Selection of officers for early retirement or discharge
    ``(a) Consideration for Early Retirement.--The Secretary of the Air 
Force may convene selection boards under section 20211(b) of this title 
to consider for early retirement officers on the Space Force officer 
list as follows:
            ``(1) Officers in the grade of lieutenant colonel who have 
        failed of selection for promotion at least one time and whose 
        names are not on a list of officers recommended for promotion.
            ``(2) Officers in the grade of colonel who have served in 
        that grade for at least two years and whose names are not on a 
        list of officers recommended for promotion.
            ``(3) Officers, other than those described in paragraphs 
        (1) and (2), holding a grade below the grade of colonel--
                    ``(A) who are eligible for retirement under section 
                20601 of this title or who after two additional years 
                or less of active service would be eligible for 
                retirement under that section; and
                    ``(B) whose names are not on a list of officers 
                recommended for promotion.
    ``(b) Consideration for Discharge.--
            ``(1) Subject to such limitations as the Secretary of 
        Defense may prescribe, the Secretary of the Air Force may 
        convene selection boards under section 20211 of this title to 
        consider for discharge officers on the Space Force officer 
        list--
                    ``(A) who have served at least one year of active 
                status in the grade currently held;
                    ``(B) whose names are not on a list of officers 
                recommended for promotion; and
                    ``(C) who are not eligible to be retired under any 
                provision of law (other than by reason of eligibility 
                pursuant to section 4403 of the National Defense 
                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993 (Public Law 102-
                484)) and are not within two years of becoming so 
                eligible.
            ``(2) An officer who is recommended for discharge by a 
        selection board convened pursuant to the authority of paragraph 
        (1) and whose discharge is approved by the Secretary of the Air 
        Force shall be discharged on a date specified by the Secretary.
            ``(3) Selection of officers for discharge under paragraph 
        (1) shall be based on the needs of the service.
    ``(c) Discharges and Retirements Considered To Be Involuntary.--The 
discharge or retirement of an officer pursuant to this section shall be 
considered to be involuntary for purposes of any other provision of 
law.
``Sec. 20405. Force shaping authority
    ``(a) Authority.--The Secretary of the Air Force may, solely for 
the purpose of restructuring the Space Force--
            ``(1) discharge an officer described in subsection (b); or
            ``(2) involuntarily release such an officer from sustained 
        duty.
    ``(b) Covered Officers.--(1) The authority under this section may 
be exercised in the case of an officer of the Space Force serving on 
sustained duty who--
            ``(A) has completed not more than six years of service as a 
        commissioned officer in the armed forces; or
            ``(B) has completed more than six years of service as a 
        commissioned officer in the armed forces, but has not completed 
        the minimum service obligation applicable to that officer.
    ``(2) In this subsection, the term `minimum service obligation', 
with respect to a member of the Space Force, means the initial period 
of required active duty service applicable to the member, together with 
any additional period of required active duty service incurred by that 
member during the member's initial period of required active duty 
service.
    ``(c) Regulations.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall prescribe 
regulations for the exercise of the Secretary's authority under this 
section.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Section 647 of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting ``(other than an 
        officer of the Space Force)'' after ``in the case of an 
        officer'';
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``Regular Marine Corps, 
        of Regular Space Force'' and inserting ``or Regular Marine 
        Corps''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Space Force.--For a similar provision with respect to 
officers of the Space Force, see section 20405 of this title.''.

SEC. 1819. SEPARATION OF OFFICERS FOR SUBSTANDARD PERFORMANCE OF DUTY 
              OR FOR CERTAIN OTHER REASONS.

    Subtitle F of title 10, United States Code, as amended by section 
1718, is further amended by adding at the end the following new 
chapter:

 ``CHAPTER 2011--SEPARATION OF OFFICERS FOR SUBSTANDARD PERFORMANCE OF 
                   DUTY OR FOR CERTAIN OTHER REASONS

``Sec.
``20501. Authority to establish procedures to consider the separation 
                            of officers for substandard performance of 
                            duty and for certain other reasons.
``20502. Retention boards.
``20503. Removal of officer: action by secretary upon recommendation of 
                            retention board.
``20504. Rights and procedures.
``20505. Officer considered for removal: voluntary retirement or 
                            discharge.
``20506. Officers eligible to serve on retention boards.
``Sec. 20501. Authority to establish procedures to consider the 
              separation of officers for substandard performance of 
              duty and for certain other reasons
    ``(a) Procedures for Review of Record of Officers Relating to 
Standards of Performance of Duty.--(1) The Secretary of the Air Force 
shall prescribe, by regulation, procedures for the review at any time 
of the record of any commissioned officer (other than a retired 
officer) of the Space Force in a Space Force active status to determine 
whether the officer shall be required, because of a reason stated in 
paragraph (2), to show cause for the officer's retention in a Space 
Force active status.
    ``(2) The reasons referred to in paragraph (1) are the following:
            ``(A) The officer's performance of duty has fallen below 
        standards prescribed by the Secretary of Defense.
            ``(B) The officer has failed to satisfy the standards and 
        qualifications established under section 20403 of this title by 
        the Secretary of the Air Force.
    ``(b) Procedures for Review of Record of Officers Relating to 
Certain Other Reasons.--(1) The Secretary of the Air Force shall 
prescribe, by regulation, procedures for the review at any time of the 
record of any commissioned officer (other than a retired officer) of 
the Space Force in a Space Force active status to determine whether the 
officer should be required, because of a reason stated in paragraph 
(2), to show cause for the officer's retention in a Space Force active 
status.
    ``(2) The reasons referred to in paragraph (1) are the following:
            ``(A) Misconduct.
            ``(B) Moral or professional dereliction.
            ``(C) The officer's retention is not clearly consistent 
        with the interests of national security.
    ``(c) Secretary of Defense Limitations.--Regulations prescribed by 
the Secretary of the Air Force under this section are subject to such 
limitations as the Secretary of Defense may prescribe.
``Sec. 20502. Retention boards
    ``(a) Convening of Boards To Consider Officers Required To Show 
Cause.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall convene retention boards 
at such times and places as the Secretary may prescribe to receive 
evidence and make findings and recommendations as to whether an officer 
who is required under section 20501 of this title to show cause for 
retention in a Space Force active status should be retained in a Space 
Force active status. Each retention board shall be composed of not less 
than three officers having the qualifications prescribed by section 
20506 of this title.
    ``(b) Fair and Impartial Hearing.--A retention board shall give a 
fair and impartial hearing to each officer required under section 20501 
of this title to show cause for retention in a Space Force active 
status.
    ``(c) Effect of Board Determination That an Officer Has Failed To 
Establish That the Officer Should Be Retained.--(1) If a retention 
board determines that the officer has failed to establish that the 
officer should be retained in a Space Force active status, the board 
shall recommend to the Secretary of the Air Force one of the following:
            ``(A) That the officer be transferred to an inactive 
        status.
            ``(B) That the officer, if qualified under any provision of 
        law, be retired.
            ``(C) That the officer be discharged from the Space Force.
    ``(2) Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Air 
Force, an officer as to whom a retention board makes a recommendation 
under paragraph (1) that the officer not be retained in a Space Force 
active status may be required to take leave pending the completion of 
the officer's case under this chapter. The officer may be required to 
begin such leave at any time following the officer's receipt of the 
report of the retention board, including the board's recommendation for 
removal from a Space Force active status, and the expiration of any 
period allowed for submission by the officer of a rebuttal to that 
report. The leave may be continued until the date on which action by 
the Secretary of the Air Force on the officer's case is completed or 
may be terminated at any earlier time.
    ``(d) Effect of Board Determination That an Officer Has Established 
That the Officer Should Be Retained.--(1) If a retention board 
determines that the officer has established that the officer should be 
retained in a Space Force active status, the officer's case is closed.
    ``(2) An officer who is required to show cause for retention in a 
Space Force active status under subsection (a) of section 20501 of this 
title and who is determined under paragraph (1) to have established 
that the officer should be retained in a Space Force active status may 
not again be required to show cause for retention in a Space Force 
active status under such subsection within the one-year period 
beginning on the date of that determination.
    ``(3)(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), an officer who is required to 
show cause for retention in a Space Force active status under 
subsection (b) of section 20501 of this title and who is determined 
under paragraph (1) to have established that the officer should be 
retained in a Space Force active status may again be required to show 
cause for retention at any time.
    ``(B) An officer who has been required to show cause for retention 
in a Space Force active status under subsection (b) of section 20501 of 
this title and who is thereafter retained in an active status may not 
again be required to show cause for retention in a Space Force active 
status under such subsection solely because of conduct which was the 
subject of the previous proceedings, unless the findings or 
recommendations of the retention board that considered the officer's 
previous case are determined to have been obtained by fraud or 
collusion.
    ``(4) In the case of an officer described in paragraph (2) or 
paragraph (3)(A), the retention board may recommend that the officer be 
required to complete additional training, professional education, or 
such other developmental programs as may be available to correct any 
identified deficiencies and improve the officer's performance within 
the Space Force.
``Sec. 20503. Removal of officer: action by Secretary upon 
              recommendation of retention board
    ``The Secretary of the Air Force may remove an officer from Space 
Force active status if the removal of such officer from Space Force 
active status is recommended by a retention board convened under 
section 20502 of this title.
``Sec. 20504. Rights and procedures
    ``(a) In General.--Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of 
the Air Force, each officer required under section 20501 of this title 
to show cause for retention in a Space Force active status--
            ``(1) shall be notified in writing, at least 30 days before 
        the hearing of the officer's case by a retention board, of the 
        reasons for which the officer is being required to show cause 
        for retention in a Space Force active status;
            ``(2) shall be allowed a reasonable time, as determined by 
        the board, to prepare the officer's showing of cause for 
        retention in a Space Force active status;
            ``(3) shall be allowed to appear either in person or 
        through electronic means and to be represented by counsel at 
        proceedings before the board; and
            ``(4) shall be allowed full access to, and shall be 
        furnished copies of, records relevant to the officer's case, 
        except that the board shall withhold any record that the 
        Secretary determines should be withheld in the interest of 
        national security.
    ``(b) Summary of Records Withheld in Interest of National 
Security.--When a record is withheld under subsection (a)(4), the 
officer whose case is under consideration shall, to the extent that the 
interest of national security permits, be furnished a summary of the 
record so withheld.
``Sec. 20505. Officer considered for removal: voluntary retirement or 
              discharge
    ``(a) In General.--At any time during proceedings under this 
chapter with respect to the removal of an officer from a Space Force 
active status, the Secretary of the Air Force may grant a request by 
the officer--
            ``(1) for voluntary retirement, if the officer is qualified 
        for retirement; or
            ``(2) for discharge in accordance with subsection (b)(2).
    ``(b) Retirement or Discharge.--An officer removed from a Space 
Force active status under section 20503 of this title shall--
            ``(1) if eligible for voluntary retirement under any 
        provision of law on the date of such removal, be retired in the 
        grade and with the retired pay for which the officer would be 
        eligible if retired under such provision; and
            ``(2) if ineligible for voluntary retirement under any 
        provision of law on the date of such removal--
                    ``(A) be honorably discharged in the grade then 
                held, in the case of an officer whose case was brought 
                under subsection (a) of section 20501 of this title; or
                    ``(B) be discharged in the grade then held, in the 
                case of an officer whose case was brought under 
                subsection (b) of section 20501 of this title.
    ``(c) Separation Pay for Discharged Officer.--An officer who is 
discharged under subsection (b)(2) is entitled, if eligible therefor, 
to separation pay under section 1174(a)(2) of this title.
``Sec. 20506. Officers eligible to serve on retention boards
    ``(a) In General.--The provisions of section 1187 of this title 
apply to the membership of boards convened under this chapter in the 
same manner as to the membership of boards convened under chapter 60 of 
this title.
    ``(b) Retired Air Force Officers.--
            ``(1) Authority.--In applying subsection (b) of section 
        1187 of this title to a board convened under this chapter, the 
        Secretary of the Air Force may appoint retired officers of the 
        Air Force, in addition to retired officers of the Space Force, 
        to complete the membership of the board.
            ``(2) Limitation.--A retired officer of the Air Force may 
        be appointed to a board under paragraph (1) only if the officer 
        served in a space-related career field of the Air Force for 
        sufficient time such that the Secretary of the Air Force 
        determines that the retired Air Force officer has adequate 
        knowledge concerning the standards of performance and conduct 
        required of an officer of the Space Force.''.

SEC. 1820. RETIREMENT.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle F of title 10, United States Code, as 
amended by section 1719, is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new chapter:

       ``CHAPTER 2013--VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT FOR LENGTH OF SERVICE

``Sec.
``20601. Officers: voluntary retirement for length of service.
``20602. Officers: computation of years of service for voluntary 
                            retirement.
``20603. Enlisted members: voluntary retirement for length of service.
``20604. Enlisted members: computation of years of service for 
                            voluntary retirement.
``20605. Applicability of other provisions of law relating to 
                            retirement.
``Sec. 20601. Officers: voluntary retirement for length of service
    ``(a) Twenty Years or More.--The Secretary of the Air Force may, 
upon the officer's request, retire a commissioned officer of the Space 
Force who has at least 20 years of service computed under section 20602 
of this title, at least 10 years of which have been active service as a 
commissioned officer.
    ``(b) Thirty Years or More.--A commissioned officer of the Space 
Force who has at least 30 years of service computed under section 20602 
of this title may be retired upon the officer's request, in the 
discretion of the President.
    ``(c) Forty Years or More.--Except as provided in section 20503 of 
this title, a commissioned officer of the Space Force who has at least 
40 years of service computed under section 20602 of this title shall be 
retired upon the officer's request.
``Sec. 20602. Officers: computation of years of service for voluntary 
              retirement
    ``(a) Years of Active Service.--For the purpose of determining 
whether an officer of the Space Force may be retired under section 
20601 of this title, the officer's years of service are computed by 
adding all active service in the armed forces.
    ``(b) Reference to Section Excluding Service During Certain 
Periods.--Section 972(b) of this title excludes from computation of an 
officer's years of service for purposes of this section any time 
identified with respect to that officer under that section.
``Sec. 20603. Enlisted members: voluntary retirement for length of 
              service
    ``(a) Twenty to Thirty Years.--Under regulations to be prescribed 
by the Secretary of the Air Force, an enlisted member of the Space 
Force who has at least 20, but less than 30, years of service computed 
under section 20604 of this title may, upon the member's request, be 
retired.
    ``(b) Thirty Years or More.--An enlisted member of the Space Force 
who has at least 30 years of service computed under section 20604 of 
this title shall be retired upon the member's request.
``Sec. 20604. Enlisted members: computation of years of service for 
              voluntary retirement
    ``(a) Years of Active Service.--For the purpose of determining 
whether an enlisted member of the Space Force may be retired under 
section 20603 of this title, the member's years of service are computed 
by adding all active service in the armed forces.
    ``(b) Reference to Section Excluding Counting of Certain Service 
Required To Be Made up.--Time required to be made up under section 
972(a) of this title may not be counted in computing years of service 
under subsection (a).
``Sec. 20605. Applicability of other provisions of law relating to 
              retirement
    ``(a) Applicability to Members of the Space Force.--Except as 
specifically provided for by this chapter, the provisions of this title 
specified in subsection (b) apply to members of the Space Force as 
follows:
            ``(1) Provisions pertaining to an officer of the Air Force 
        shall apply to an officer of the Space Force.
            ``(2) Provisions pertaining to an enlisted member of the 
        Air Force shall apply to an enlisted member of the Space Force.
            ``(3) Provisions pertaining to a regular officer shall 
        apply to an officer who is on sustained duty in the Space 
        Force.
            ``(4) Provisions pertaining to a regular enlisted member 
        shall apply to an enlisted member who is on sustained duty in 
        the Space Force.
            ``(5) Provisions pertaining to a reserve officer shall 
        apply to an officer who is in a Space Force active status but 
        not on sustained duty.
            ``(6) Provisions pertaining to a reserve enlisted member 
        shall apply to an enlisted member who is in a Space Force 
        active status but not on sustained duty.
            ``(7) Provisions pertaining to service in a regular 
        component shall apply to service on sustained duty.
            ``(8) Provisions pertaining to service in a reserve 
        component shall apply to service in a Space Force active status 
        not on sustained duty.
            ``(9) Provisions pertaining to a member of the Ready 
        Reserve shall apply to a member of the Space Force who is in a 
        Space Force active status prior to being ordered to active 
        duty.
            ``(10) Provisions pertaining to a member of the Retired 
        Reserve shall apply to a member of the Space Force who has 
        retired under chapter 1223 of this title.
    ``(b) Provisions of Law.--The provisions of this title referred to 
in subsection (a) are the following:
            ``(1) Chapter 61, relating to retirement or separation for 
        physical disability.
            ``(2) Chapter 63, relating to retirement for age.
            ``(3) Chapter 69, relating to retired grade.
            ``(4) Chapter 71, relating to computation of retired pay.
            ``(5) Chapter 941, relating to retirement from the Air 
        Force for length of service.
            ``(6) Chapter 945, relating to computation of retired pay.
            ``(7) Chapter 1223, relating to retired pay for non-regular 
        service.
            ``(8) Chapter 1225, relating to retired grade.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Title 10, United States Code, is 
amended as follows:
            (1) Retired members ordered to active duty.--Section 688(b) 
        is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Regular Marine 
                Corps, or Regular Space Force'' and inserting ``or 
                Regular Marine Corps''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(4) A retired member of the Space Force.''.
            (2) Retired grade.--Section 9341 is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``or the Space 
                Force'' both places it appears;
                    (B) in subsection (b), by striking ``or a Regular 
                or Reserve of the Space Force''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subsection:
    ``(c) Space Force.--(1) The retired grade of a commissioned officer 
of the Space Force who retires other than for physical disability is 
determined under section 1370 or 1370a of this title, as applicable to 
the officer.
    ``(2) Unless entitled to a higher retired grade under some other 
provision of law, a member of the Space Force not covered by paragraph 
(1) who retires other than for physical disability retires in the grade 
that the member holds on the date of the member's retirement.''.
            (3) Retired grade of enlisted members after 30 years of 
        service.--Section 9344(b)(2) is amended by striking ``Regular'' 
        before ``Space Force''.
            (4) Retired lists.--Section 9346 is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``or the Regular 
                Space Force'' and inserting ``and a separate retired 
                list containing the name of each retired commissioned 
                officer of the Space Force (other than an officer whose 
                name is on the list maintained under subsection 
                (b)(2))'';
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) 
                        as subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively;
                            (ii) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(b)'';
                            (iii) in subparagraph (A), as redesignated 
                        by clause (i), by striking ``, or for 
                        commissioned officers of the Space Force other 
                        than of the Regular Space Force'';
                            (iv) in subparagraph (B), as so 
                        redesignated, by striking ``or the Space 
                        Force''; and
                            (v) by adding at the end the following new 
                        paragraph:
    ``(2) The Secretary shall maintain a retired list containing the 
name of--
            ``(A) each person entitled to retired pay who as a member 
        of the Space Force qualified for retirement under section 20601 
        of this title; and
            ``(B) each retired warrant officer or enlisted member of 
        the Space Force who is advanced to a commissioned grade.'';
                    (C) in subsection (c), by striking ``or the Space 
                Force'' and inserting ``and a separate retired list 
                containing the name of each retired warrant officer of 
                the Space Force''; and
                    (D) in subsection (d), by striking ``or the Regular 
                Space Force'' and inserting ``and a separate retired 
                list containing the name of each retired enlisted 
                member of the Space Force''.

   Subtitle B--Conforming Amendments Related to Space Force Military 
                            Personnel System

SEC. 1831. AMENDMENTS TO DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE PROVISIONS OF 
              TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE.

    (a) Provisions Relating to Personnel.--Part II of subtitle D of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended as follows:
            (1) Gender-free basis for acceptance of original 
        enlistments.--
                    (A) Section 9132 is amended by striking ``Regular'' 
                before ``Space Force''.
                    (B) The heading of such section is amended by 
                striking ``regular space force'' and inserting ``space 
                force''.
            (2) Reenlistment after service as an officer.--
                    (A) Section 9138(a) is amended by striking 
                ``Regular'' before ``Space Force'' both places it 
                appears.
                    (B) The heading of section 9138 is amended by 
                striking ``regular space force'' and inserting ``space 
                force''.
            (3) Warrant officers: original appointment; 
        qualifications.--Section 9160 is amended by striking 
        ``Regular'' before Space Force''.
            (4) Service as an officer to be counted as enlisted 
        service.--Section 9252 is amended by striking ``Regular'' 
        before ``Space Force''.
            (5) Chapter heading.--
                    (A) The heading of chapter 915 is amended to read 
                as follows:

 ``CHAPTER 915--APPOINTMENTS IN THE REGULAR AIR FORCE AND IN THE SPACE 
                                FORCE''.

                    (B) The tables of chapters at the beginning of 
                subtitle D, and at the beginning of part II of subtitle 
                D of such title, are each amended by striking the item 
                relating to chapter 915 and inserting the following new 
                item:

``915. Appointments in the Regular Air Force and in the Space Force 
                            9151.''.
    (b) Provisions Relating to Training Generally.--Section 9401 of 
such title is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``or the Regular Space Force'' 
                after ``Regular Air Force''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``or one of the Space Force in a 
                Space Force active status not on sustained duty,'' 
                after ``on the active-duty list,'';
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by striking ``or Reserve of the Space Force'' 
                and inserting ``or member of the Space Force in a Space 
                Force active status not on sustained duty''; and
                    (B) by striking ``the Reserve's consent'' and 
                inserting ``the member's consent''; and
            (3) in subsection (f)--
                    (A) by striking ``the Regular Space Force'' and 
                inserting ``of Space Force members on sustained duty''; 
                and
                    (B) by striking ``the Space Force Reserve'' and 
                inserting ``of Space Force members in an active status 
                not on sustained duty''.
    (c) Provisions Relating to the Air Force Academy.--Chapter 953 of 
such title is amended as follows:
            (1) Permanent professors; director of admissions.--Section 
        9436 is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) by striking ``the equivalent grade in'' 
                        both places it appears;
                            (ii) by inserting ``or the Space Force'' 
                        after ``Regular Air Force'' the first place it 
                        appears;
                            (iii) by striking ``and a permanent'' and 
                        all that follows through ``in the Regular Air 
                        Force''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) by striking ``the equivalent grade in'' 
                        both places it appears and inserting ``the 
                        grade of lieutenant colonel in''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``Regular Space Force has 
                        the grade equivalent to the grade of colonel in 
                        the Regular Air Force'' and inserting ``Space 
                        Force has the grade of colonel in the Space 
                        Force''.
            (2) Appointment of cadets.--Section 9442(b) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)(C), by inserting ``, or the 
                Space Force,'' after ``members of reserve components''; 
                and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``Regular'' 
                before ``Space Force''.
            (3) Agreement of cadets to serve as officers.--Section 
        9448(a) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ``Regular'' 
                before ``Space Force''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph 
                        (A), by inserting ``, or to terminate the 
                        officer's order to sustained duty in the Space 
                        Force'' after ``resign as a regular officer'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``or 
                        as a Reserve in the Space Force for service in 
                        the Space Force Reserve'' and inserting ``or 
                        will accept further assignment in a Space Force 
                        active status''; and
                            (iii) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``, 
                        or the Space Force,'' after ``that reserve 
                        component''.
            (4) Hazing.--Section 9452(c) is amended by striking 
        ``Marine Corps, or Space Force,'' and inserting, ``or Marine 
        Corps, or in the Space Force,''.
            (5) Commission upon graduation.--Section 9453(b) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking ``or in the equivalent grade in the 
                Regular Space Force''; and
                    (B) by inserting before the period the following: 
                ``or a second lieutenant in the Space Force under 
                section 531 or 20201 of this title''.
    (d) Provisions Relating to Schools and Camps.--Chapter 957 of such 
title is amended as follows:
            (1) Purpose.--Section 9481 is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``to qualify them for appointment'' 
                and inserting ``to qualify them for--
            ``(1) appointment'';
                    (B) by striking ``or the Space Force Reserve.'' and 
                inserting ``; or''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(2) appointment as officers, or enlistment as 
        noncommissioned officers, for service in the Space Force in a 
        Space Force active status.''.
            (2) Operation.--Section 9482(4) is amended by striking ``or 
        the Regular Space Force'' and inserting ``or members of the 
        Space Force in an active status''.

SEC. 1832. AMENDMENTS TO SUBTITLE A OF TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE.

    (a) Provisions Relating to Organization and General Military 
Powers.--Part I of subtitle A of title 10, Untied States Code, is 
amended as follows:
            (1) Annual defense manpower report.--Section 115a(d)(3)(F) 
        is amended by inserting before the period the following: ``or, 
        in the case of the Space Force, officers ordered to active duty 
        other than under section 20105(b) of this title''.
            (2) Suspension of end-strength and other strength 
        limitations in time of war or national emergency.--Section 
        123a(a)(2) is amended by inserting ``or the Space Force'' after 
        ``a reserve component''.
            (3) Deputy commander of usnorthcom.--Section 164(e)(4) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(4)'';
                    (B) by striking ``shall be a'' and all that follows 
                through the period at the end and inserting ``shall 
                be--
                            ``(i) a qualified officer of a reserve 
                        component who is eligible for promotion to the 
                        grade of lieutenant general or, in the case of 
                        the Navy, vice admiral; or
                            ``(ii) a qualified officer of the Space 
                        Force whose prior service includes service in a 
                        Space Force active status other than sustained 
                        duty and who is eligible for promotion to the 
                        grade of lieutenant general.''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(B) The requirement in subparagraph (A) does not 
                apply when the officer serving as commander of the 
                combatant command described in that subparagraph is--
                            ``(i) a reserve component officer; or
                            ``(ii) an officer of the Space Force whose 
                        prior service includes service in a Space Force 
                        active status other than sustained duty.''.
            (4) Readiness reports.--Section 482(a) is amended by 
        inserting ``and the Space Force'' after ``active and reserve 
        components'' both places it appears.
    (b) Dopma Officer Personnel Provisions.--Chapter 36 of such title 
is amended as follows:
            (1) Nondisclosure of board proceedings.--Section 613a is 
        amended by striking ``573, 611, or 628'' both places it appears 
        and inserting ``573, 611, 628, or 20211''.
            (2) Information furnished to selection boards.--Section 
        615(a) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``or 20211'' 
                after ``section 611(a)''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (B)(i), by striking 
                        ``regular officer'' and all that follows 
                        through the period at the end and inserting 
                        ``regular officer or an officer in the Space 
                        Force, a grade above captain or, in the case of 
                        the Navy, lieutenant.''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (D)--
                                    (I) by striking ``major general,'' 
                                and inserting ``major general or''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``or, in the case 
                                of the Space Force, the equivalent 
                                grade,''.
            (3) Eligibility for consideration for promotion: time-in-
        grade and other requirements.--Section 619(a) is amended by 
        striking ``Marine Corps, or Space Force'' each place it appears 
        and inserting ``or Marine Corps''.
            (4) Authority to vacate promotions to grades of brigadier 
        general and rear admiral (lower half).--Section 625(b) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking ``Marine Corps, or Space Force'' 
                and inserting ``or Marine Corps''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                sentence: ``An officer of the Space Force whose 
                promotion is vacated under this section holds the grade 
                of colonel.''.
            (5) Acceptance of promotions; oath of office.--Section 626 
        is amended by striking ``section 624'' both places it appears 
        and inserting ``section 624 or 20241''.
            (6) Special selection review board.--Section 628a is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1)(A)--
                            (i) by striking ``major general,'' and 
                        inserting ``major general or''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``, or an equivalent grade 
                        in the Space Force'';
                    (B) in subsection (e)(2), by adding at the end the 
                following new sentence: ``However, in the case of an 
                officer on the Space Force officer list, the provisions 
                of section 618 of this title apply to the report and 
                proceedings of a special selection review board 
                convened under this section in the same manner as they 
                apply to report and proceedings of a promotion board 
                convened under section 20211 of this title.''; and
                    (C) in subsection (f)(1), by adding at the end the 
                following new sentence: ``However, if the report of a 
                special selection review board convened under this 
                section recommends the sustainment of the 
                recommendation for promotion to the next higher grade 
                of an officer on the Space Force officer list who was 
                referred to it for review under this section, and the 
                President approves the report, the officer shall, as 
                soon as practicable, be appointed to the grade in 
                accordance with subsections (b) and (c) of section 
                20241 of this title.''.
            (7) Removal from list of officers recommended for 
        promotion.--Section 629 is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (b), by inserting ``or 20241(c)'' 
                after ``section 624(c)''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c)--
                            (i) by inserting ``or 20241(a)'' after 
                        ``section 624(a)'' both places it appears; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``or 20241(c)'' after 
                        ``section 624(c)'' both places it appears.
            (8) Retirement for years of service.--
                    (A) Lieutenant colonels.--Section 633(a) is 
                amended--
                            (i) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``Except 
                        as'';
                            (ii) by striking ``Regular Marine Corps, or 
                        Regular Space Force'' and inserting ``or 
                        Regular Marine Corps''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following 
                        new paragraph:
    ``(2) Except as provided under section 637(b) or 637a of this 
title, each officer of the Space Force who holds the grade of 
lieutenant colonel who is not on a list of officers recommended for 
promotion to the grade of colonel shall, if not earlier retired, be 
retired on the first day of the month after the month in which the 
officer completes 28 years of active commissioned service.''.
                    (B) Colonels.--Section 634(a) is amended--
                            (i) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``Except 
                        as'';
                            (ii) by striking ``Regular Marine Corps, or 
                        Regular Space Force'' and inserting ``or 
                        Regular Marine Corps''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following 
                        new paragraph:
    ``(2) Except as provided under section 637(b) or 637a of this 
title, each officer of the Space Force who holds the grade of colonel 
who is not on a list of officers recommended for promotion to the grade 
of brigadier general shall, if not earlier retired, be retired on the 
first day of the month after the month in which the officer completes 
30 years of active commissioned service.''.
                    (C) Brigadier generals.--Section 635 is amended--
                            (i) by inserting ``(a) Army, Navy, Air 
                        Force, and Marine Corps'' before ``Except as'';
                            (ii) by striking ``Regular Marine Corps, or 
                        Regular Space Force'' and inserting ``or 
                        Regular Marine Corps''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following 
                        new subsection:
    ``(b) Space Force.--Except as provided under section 637(b) or 637a 
of this title, each officer of the Space Force who holds the grade of 
brigadier general who is not on a list of officers recommended for 
promotion to the grade of major general shall, if not earlier retired, 
be retired as specified in subsection (a).''.
                    (D) Officers in grades above brigadier general.--
                Section 636(a) is amended--
                            (i) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``Except 
                        as'';
                            (ii) by striking ``Regular Marine Corps, or 
                        Regular Space Force'' and inserting ``or 
                        Regular Marine Corps''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following 
                        new paragraph:
    ``(2) Except as provided in subsection (b) or (c) and under section 
637(b) or 637a of this title, each officer of the Space Force who holds 
the grade of major general shall, if not earlier retired, be retired as 
specified in paragraph (1).''.
                    (E) Section headings.--
                            (i) The heading of section 633 is amended 
                        by striking ``lieutenant colonels and'' and 
                        inserting ``and space force lieutenant 
                        colonels; regular navy''.
                            (ii) The heading of section 634 is amended 
                        by striking ``colonels and'' and inserting 
                        ``and space force colonels; regular''.
                            (iii) The heading of section 635 is amended 
                        by striking ``brigadier generals and'' and 
                        inserting ``and space force brigadier generals; 
                        regular navy''.
                            (iv) The heading of section 636 is amended 
                        by striking ``officers in grades above 
                        brigadier general and'' and inserting ``and 
                        space force officers in grades above brigadier 
                        general; regular navy officers in grades 
                        above''.
    (c) Management Policies for Joint Qualified Officers.--Section 
661(a) of such title is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Marine Corps, and Space Force'' and 
        inserting ``and Marine Corps''; and
            (2) by inserting ``, and officers of the Space Force on the 
        Space Force officer list,'' after ``active-duty list''.
    (d) Leave.--Chapter 40 of such title is amended as follows:
            (1) Entitlement and accumulation.--Section 701 is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (h)--
                            (i) by inserting at the end of paragraph 
                        (2) the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(D) A member of the Space Force in a Space Force 
                active status on sustained duty or subject to a call or 
                order to active duty for a period in excess of 12 
                months.''; and
                            (ii) in paragraphs (5)(B) and (6), by 
                        inserting ``, or of the Space Force,'' after 
                        ``member of a reserve component''; and
                    (B) in subsection (i), by inserting ``, or of the 
                Space Force,'' after ``member of a reserve component''.
            (2) Payment upon disapproval of certain board of inquiry 
        recommendations for excess leave required to be taken.--Section 
        707a(a)(1) is amended by inserting ``or 20503'' after ``section 
        1182(c)(2)''.
            (3) Career flexibility to enhance retention of members.--
        Section 710 is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by inserting ``or of the 
                Space Force'' after ``regular components'';
                    (B) in subsection (b)(2), by inserting ``, or a 
                Space Force officer in a Space Force active status not 
                on active duty under section 20105(b) of this title,'' 
                after ``officer'';
                    (C) in subsection (c)(1), by inserting before the 
                period at the end the following: ``or, in the case of a 
                member of the Space Force on sustained duty, to accept 
                release from sustained duty orders and to serve in a 
                Space Force active status''; and
                    (D) in subsection (g)(1)(A), by striking ``chapter 
                36 or 1405'' and inserting ``chapter 36, 1405, or 
                2005''.
    (e) Limitation on Number of Officers Who May Be Frocked to a Higher 
Grade.--Section 777(d)(2) of such title is amended by inserting ``, or 
for the Space Force, the Space Force officer list,'' after ``active-
duty list''.
    (f) Uniform Code of Military Justice.--Chapter 47 of such title 
(the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended as follows:
            (1) Persons subject to ucmj.--Section 802 (article 2) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and 
                        members of the Space Force on active duty under 
                        section 20105 of this title,'' after ``regular 
                        component of the armed forces,'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (3)(A)(i), by inserting 
                        ``or the Space Force'' after ``reserve 
                        component'';
                            (iii) in paragraph (5), by inserting ``, or 
                        retired members of the Space Force who 
                        qualified for a non-regular retirement and are 
                        receiving retired pay,'' after ``a reserve 
                        component''; and
                            (iv) by adding at the end the following new 
                        paragraph:
            ``(14) Retired members of the Space Force who qualified for 
        a regular retirement under section 20603 of this title and are 
        receiving retired pay.''; and
                    (B) in subsection (d)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``or the 
                        Space Force'' after ``reserve component'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``or 
                        the Space Force'' after ``a reserve 
                        component''; and
                            (iii) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``or 
                        the Space Force'' after ``in a regular 
                        component of the armed forces''.
            (2) Jurisdiction to try certain personnel.--Subsection (d) 
        of section 803 (article 3) is amended by inserting, ``or the 
        Space Force'' after ``reserve component''.
            (3) Articles to be explained.--Section 937 (article 137) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1)--
                            (i) by striking ``or'' at the end of 
                        subparagraph (A);
                            (ii) by striking the period at the end of 
                        subparagraph (B) and inserting ``; or''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following 
                        new subparagraph:
                    ``(C) the member's initial entrance on active duty 
                or into a Space Force active status.'';
                    (B) in subsection (a)(2)--
                            (i) by striking ``and'' at the end of 
                        subparagraph (A);
                            (ii) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as 
                        subparagraph (C); and
                            (iii) by inserting after subparagraph (A) 
                        the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(B) after a member of Space Force has completed 
                six months of sustained duty or in the case of a member 
                not on sustained duty, after the member has completed 
                basic or recruit training; and'';
                    (C) in subsection (b)(1)(B), by inserting ``or the 
                Space Force'' after ``in a reserve component''; and
                    (D) in subsection (d)(1), by striking ``or to a 
                member of a reserve component,'' and inserting ``, to a 
                member of a reserve component, or to a member of the 
                Space Force,''.
    (g) Restriction on Performance of Civil Functions by Officers on 
Active Duty.--Section 973(b)(1) of such title 10 is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (B);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (C) 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(D) to an officer on the Space Force officer list 
                serving on active duty under section 20105(b) of this 
                title or under a call or order to active duty for a 
                period in excess of 270 days.''.
    (h) Use of Commissary Stores and Mwr Retail Facilities.--Section 
1063 of such title is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in the heading, by inserting ``and Space 
                Force'' after ``Reserve''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``or the Space Force'' after 
                ``reserve component'';
            (2) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections 
        (e) and (f), respectively;
            (3) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
        subsection (d):
    ``(d) Members of the Space Force.--A member of the Space Force in a 
Space Force active status who is not on sustained duty shall be 
permitted to use commissary stores and MWR retail facilities under the 
same conditions as specified in subsection (a) for a member of the 
Selected Reserve.''; and
            (4) in subsection (e), as redesignated by paragraph (2), by 
        striking ``subsection (a) or (b)'' in paragraph (1) and 
        inserting ``subsection (a), (b), or (d)''.
    (i) Members Involuntary Separated.--
            (1) Eligibility for certain benefits and services.--Section 
        1141 of such title is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph 
                (3);
                    (B) by striking the period at the end of paragraph 
                (4) and inserting a semicolon; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraphs:
            ``(5) in the case of an officer of the Space Force (other 
        than a retired officer), the officer is involuntarily 
        discharged or released from active duty under other than 
        adverse conditions, as characterized by the Secretary of the 
        Air Force; and
            ``(6) in the case of an enlisted member of the Space Force, 
        the member is--
                    ``(A) denied reenlistment; or
                    ``(B) involuntarily discharged or released from 
                active duty under other than adverse conditions, as 
                characterized by the Secretary of the Air Force.''.
            (2) Separation pay.--Section 1174(a)(2) of such title is 
        amended by striking ``, Marine Corps, or Space Force'' both 
        places it appears and inserting ``or Marine Corps''.
    (j) Boards for the Correction of Military Records.--Chapter 79 of 
such title is amended as follows:
            (1) Review of actions of selection boards and correction of 
        military records.--Section 1558 is amended--
                    (A) inserting ``, or the Space Force,'' after 
                ``reserve component'' each place it appears; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)(C), by striking 
                        ``section 628 or 14502'' and inserting 
                        ``section 628, 14502, or 20252'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ``or 
                        14705'' and inserting ``14507, or 20403''; and
                            (iii) in paragraph (2)(B)(i), by striking 
                        ``or 14101(a)'' and inserting ``14101(a), or 
                        20211''.
            (2) Title of air force service review agency.--
                    (A) Sections 1555(c)(3) and 1557(f)(3) are amended 
                by inserting ``the Department of'' after ``Air 
                Force,''.
                    (B) Section 1556(a) is amended by inserting ``the 
                Department of'' after ``the Army Review Boards 
                Agency,''.
                    (C) Section 1559(c)(3) is amended by inserting 
                ``the Department of'' after ``Air Force,''.
    (k) Military Family Programs.--Chapter 88 of such title is amended 
as follows:
            (1) Members of department of defense military readiness 
        council.--Section 1781a(b)(1)(B)(iii) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``member and'' and inserting 
                ``member,''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``, and one of whom shall be the 
                spouse or parent of a member of the Space Force'' after 
                ``parent of a reserve component member''.
            (2) Department of defense policy and plans for military 
        family readiness .--Section 1781b is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``military 
                families of members of the regular components and 
                military families of members of the reserve 
                components'' and inserting ``military families of 
                members of the regular components, the reserve 
                components, and the Space Force''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c)(2)--
                            (i) by striking ``both''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``military families of 
                        members of the regular components and military 
                        families of members of the reserve components'' 
                        and inserting ``military families of members of 
                        the regular components, members of the reserve 
                        components, and members of the Space Force''.
    (l) Training and Education Programs.--
            (1) Payment of tuition for off-duty training or 
        education.--Section 2007 of such title is amended by adding at 
        the end the following new subsection:
    ``(g) The provisions of this section pertaining to members of the 
Ready Reserve, the Selected Reserve, or the Individual Ready Reserve 
also apply to members of the Space Force in a Space Force active status 
who are not on active duty.''.
            (2) Rotc financial assistant program for specially selected 
        members.--Section 2107 of such title is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) by striking ``Navy,'' and inserting 
                        ``Navy or''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``Marine Corps, or as an 
                        officer in the equivalent grade in the Space 
                        Force'' and inserting ``or Marine Corps''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                subsection:
    ``(k) Applicability to Space Force.--(1) Provisions of this section 
referring to a regular commission, regular officer, or a commission in 
a regular component shall be treated as also referring to the 
commission of an officer, or an officer, who is a commissioned officer 
in the Space Force serving on active duty pursuant to section 20105(b) 
of this title.
    ``(2) Provisions of this section referring to a reserve commission, 
reserve officer, or a commission in a reserve component shall be 
treated as also referring to the commission of an officer, or an 
officer, who is a commissioned officer in the Space Force not serving 
on active duty pursuant to section 20105(b) of this title.''.
            (3) Duty as rotc administrators and instructors.--Section 
        2111 of such title is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new sentence: ``The Secretary of the Air Force may 
        detail members of the Space Force in the same manner as regular 
        and reserve members of the Air Force.''.

SEC. 1833. TITLE 38, UNITED STATES CODE (VETERANS' BENEFITS).

    (a) Definitions.--
            (1) General definitions.--Section 101 of title 38, United 
        States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (23), by inserting ``, or for 
                members of the Space Force in a Space Force active 
                status (as defined in section 101(e)(1) of title 10),'' 
                after ``(including commissioned officers of the Reserve 
                Corps of the Public Health Service)'' both places it 
                appears; and
                    (B) in paragraph (27)--
                            (i) by striking subparagraph (E); and
                            (ii) by redesignating subparagraphs (F), 
                        (G), and (H) as subparagraphs (E), (F), and 
                        (G), respectively.
            (2) Definitions for purposes of sgli.--Section 1965 of such 
        title is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)(A), by inserting ``, or by 
                members of the Space Force in a Space Force active 
                status (as defined in section 101(e)(1) of title 10) 
                but not on sustained duty under section 20105 of title 
                10,'' after ``for Reserves''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3)(A), by inserting ``, or for 
                members of the Space Force in a Space Force active 
                status (as defined in section 101(e)(1) of title 10),'' 
                after ``(including commissioned officers of the Reserve 
                Corps of the Public Health Service)''.
    (b) Persons Eligible for Interment in National Cemeteries.--Section 
2402(a) of such title is amended in paragraph (2), by inserting ``any 
member of the Space Force,'' after ``a Reserve component of the Armed 
Forces,''.
    (c) Educational Assistance.--
            (1) Montgomery gi bill.--Section 3011(a)(3)(D) of such 
        title is amended by inserting ``or for further service in the 
        Space Force in a Space Force active status not on sustained 
        duty under section 20105 of title 10'' after ``of the Armed 
        Forces,''.
            (2) Post 9-11 gi bill.--Section 3311(c)(3) of such title is 
        amended by inserting ``, or for further service in the Space 
        Force in a Space Force active status not on sustained duty 
        under section 20105 of title 10,'' after ``of the Armed 
        Forces'' the second place it appears.

                   Subtitle C--Transition Provisions

SEC. 1841. TRANSITION PERIOD.

    In this subtitle, the term ``transition period'' means the period 
beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act and ending on the 
last day of the fourth fiscal year beginning after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 1842. CHANGE OF DUTY STATUS OF MEMBERS OF THE SPACE FORCE.

    (a) Change of Duty Status.--
            (1) Conversion of status and order to sustained duty.--
        During the transition period, the Secretary of the Air Force 
        shall change the duty status of each member of the Regular 
        Space Force to Space Force active status and shall, at the same 
        time, order the member to sustained duty under section 20105 of 
        title 10, United States Code, as added by section 1715 of this 
        Act. Any such order may be made without regard to any otherwise 
        applicable requirement that such an order be made only with the 
        consent of the member or as specified in an enlistment 
        agreement or active-duty service commitment.
            (2) Definitions.--For purposes of this section, the terms 
        ``Space Force active status'' and ``sustained duty'' have the 
        meanings given those terms by subsection (e) of section 101 of 
        title 10, United States Code, as added by section 1713(a).
    (b) Effective Date of Change of Duty Status.--The change of a 
member's duty status and order to sustained duty in accordance with 
subsection (a) shall be effective on the date specified by the 
Secretary of the Air Force, but not later than the last day of the 
transition period.

SEC. 1843. TRANSFER TO THE SPACE FORCE OF MEMBERS OF THE AIR FORCE 
              RESERVE AND THE AIR NATIONAL GUARD.

    (a) Transfer of Members of the Air Force Reserve.--
            (1) Officers.--During the transition period, the Secretary 
        of Defense may, with the officer's consent, transfer a covered 
        officer of the Air Force Reserve or the Air National Guard to, 
        and appoint the officer in, the Space Force.
            (2) Enlisted members.--During the transition period, the 
        Secretary of the Air Force may transfer each covered enlisted 
        member of the Air Force Reserve or the Air National Guard to 
        the Space Force, other than those members who do not consent to 
        the transfer.
            (3) Effective date of transfers.--Each transfer under this 
        subsection shall be effective on the date specified by the 
        Secretary of Defense, in the case of an officer, or the 
        Secretary of the Air Force, in the case of an enlisted member, 
        but not later than the last day of the transition period.
    (b) Regulations.--Transfers under subsection (a) shall be carried 
out under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense. In the 
case of an officer, applicable regulations shall include those 
prescribed pursuant to section 716 of title 10, United States Code.
    (c) Term of Initial Enlistment in Space Force.--In the case of a 
covered enlisted member who is transferred to the Space Force in 
accordance with subsection (a), the Secretary of the Air Force may 
accept the initial enlistment of the member in the Space Force for a 
period of less than 2 years, but only if the period of enlistment in 
the Space Force is not less than the period remaining, as of the date 
of the transfer, in the member's term of enlistment in the Air Force 
Reserve.
    (d) End Strength Adjustments Upon Transfers From Air Force Reserve 
or Air National Guard to Space Force.--During the transition period, 
upon the transfer of a mission of the Air Force Reserve or the Air 
National Guard to the Space Force--
            (1) the end strength authorized for the Space Force 
        pursuant to section 115(a)(1)(A) of title 10, United States 
        Code, for the fiscal year during which the transfer occurs 
        shall be increased by the number of billets associated with 
        that mission; and
            (2) the end strength authorized for the Air Force Reserve 
        and the Air National Guard pursuant to section 115(a)(2) of 
        such title for such fiscal year shall be decreased by the same 
        number.
    (e) Administrative Provisions.--For purposes of the transfer of 
covered members of the Air Force Reserve in accordance with subsection 
(a)--
            (1) the Air Force Reserve, the Air National Guard, and the 
        Space Force shall be considered to be components of the same 
        Armed Force; and
            (2) the Space Force officer list shall be considered to be 
        an active-duty list of an Armed Force.
    (f) Retraining and Reassignment for Members Not Transferring.--If a 
covered member of the Air Force Reserve or the Air National Guard does 
not consent to transfer to the Space Force in accordance with 
subsection (a), the Secretary of the Air Force may, as determined 
appropriate by the Secretary in the case of the individual member, 
provide the member retraining and reassignment within the Air Force 
Reserve.
    (g) Covered Members.--For purposes of this section, the term 
``covered'', with respect to a member of the Air Force Reserve or the 
Air National Guard, means--
            (1) a member who as of the date of the enactment of this 
        Act holds an Air Force specialty code for a specialty held by 
        members of the Space Force; and
            (2) any other member designated by the Secretary of the Air 
        Force for the purposes of this section.

SEC. 1844. PLACEMENT OF OFFICERS ON THE SPACE FORCE OFFICER LIST.

    (a) Placement on List.--Officers of the Space Force whose duty 
status is changed in accordance with section 1742, and officers of the 
Air Force Reserve or the Air National Guard who transfer to the Space 
Force in accordance with section 1743, shall be placed on the Space 
Force officer list in an order determined by their respective grades 
and dates of rank.
    (b) Officers of Same Grade and Date of Rank.--Among officers of the 
same grade and date of rank, placement on the Space Force officer list 
shall be in the order of their rank as determined in accordance with 
section 741(c) of title 10, United States Code.

SEC. 1845. DISESTABLISHMENT OF REGULAR SPACE FORCE.

    (a) Disestablishment.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall 
disestablish the Regular Space Force not later than the end of the 
transition period, once there are no longer any members remaining in 
the Regular Space Force. The Regular Space Force shall be 
disestablished upon the completion of the change of duty status of all 
members of the Space Force pursuant to section 1742 and certification 
by the Secretary of the Air Force to the congressional defense 
committees that there are no longer any members of the Regular Space 
Force.
    (b) Publication of Notice in Federal Register.--The Secretary shall 
publish in the Federal Register notice of the disestablishment of the 
Regular Space Force, including the date thereof, together with any 
certification submitted pursuant to subsection (a).
    (c) Conforming Repeal.--
            (1) Repeal.--Section 9085 of title 10, United States Code, 
        relating to the composition of the Regular Space Force, is 
        repealed.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendment made by this subsection 
        shall take effect on the date on which the certification is 
        submitted under subsection (a).

SEC. 1846. END STRENGTH FLEXIBILITY.

    (a) Additional Authority To Vary End Strengths.--
            (1) Authority.--Notwithstanding section 115(g) of title 10, 
        United States Code, upon determination by the Secretary of the 
        Air Force that such action would enhance manning and readiness 
        in essential units or in critical specialties, the Secretary 
        may vary the end strength authorized by Congress for a fiscal 
        year as follows:
                    (A) Increase the end strength authorized pursuant 
                to section 115(a)(1)(A) of such title for a fiscal year 
                for the Space Force by a number equal to not more than 
                5 percent of such authorized end strength.
                    (B) Decrease the end strength authorized pursuant 
                to section 115(a)(1)(A) of such title for a fiscal year 
                for the Space Force by a number equal to not more than 
                10 percent of such authorized end strength.
            (2) Termination.--The authority provided under paragraph 
        (1) shall terminate on the last day of the transition period.
    (b) Temporary Exemption for the Space Force From End Strength Grade 
Restrictions.--Sections 517 and 523 of title 10, United States Code, 
shall not apply to the Space Force during the transition period.

SEC. 1847. PROMOTION AUTHORITY FLEXIBILITY.

    (a) Promotion Authority Flexibility.--During the transition period, 
the Secretary of the Air Force may convene selection boards to consider 
officers on the Space Force officer list for promotion, and may promote 
Space Force officers selected by such boards, in accordance with any of 
the following provisions of title 10, United States Code:
            (1) Chapter 36.
            (2) Part III of subtitle E.
            (3) Chapter 2005, as added by section 1716.
    (b) Coordination of Provisions.--(1) For a selection board convened 
pursuant to subsection (a) to consider members of the Space Force for 
promotion in accordance with chapter 36 of such title--
            (A) provisions that apply to an officer of a regular 
        component of the Armed Forces shall apply to an officer of the 
        Space Force; and
            (B) the Space Force officer list shall be considered to be 
        an active-duty list.
    (2) For a selection board convened pursuant to subsection (a) to 
consider members of the Space Force for promotion in accordance with 
part III of subtitle E of such title--
            (A) provisions that apply to an officer of a reserve 
        component of the Armed Forces shall apply to an officer of the 
        Space Force; and
            (B) the Space Force officer list shall be considered to be 
        a reserve active-status list.
    (3) For a selection board convened pursuant to subsection (a) to 
consider members of the Space Force for promotion in accordance with 
either chapter 36 or part III of subtitle E of such title--
            (A) section 20213 of such title, as added by section 1716 
        if this Act, shall apply to the composition of the selection 
        board;
            (B) the provisions of chapter 2005 of such title, as added 
        by such section 1716, regarding officers on the Space Force 
        officer list eligible to be considered for promotion to the 
        grade of brigadier general or major general shall apply;
            (C) section 20216 of such title, as so added, shall apply; 
        and
            (D) the provisions of chapter 36 or part III of subtitle E 
        of such title, as the case may be, regarding failure of 
        selection for promotion shall apply.
    (c) Effect of Using New Chapter 2005 Authorities.--If the Secretary 
of the Air Force convenes a selection board under chapter 2005 of title 
10, United States Code, as added by section 1716, to consider officers 
on the Space Force officer list in a particular grade and competitive 
category for selection for promotion to the next higher grade, the 
Secretary may not convene a future selection board pursuant to 
subsection (a) to consider officers of the same grade and competitive 
category under chapter 36 or part III of subtitle E of such title.

        Subtitle D--Other Amendments Related to the Space Force

SEC. 1851. TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE.

    (a) Amendments Relating to the Designation of Grades for Space 
Force Officers.--Title 10, United States Code, is amended as follows:
            (1) Commissioned officer grades.--Section 9151 is amended 
        by inserting ``and in the Space Force'' after ``in the Regular 
        Air Force''.
            (2) Rank.--Section 741(a) is amended in the table by 
        striking ``and Marine Corps'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, and 
        Space Force''.
            (3) Definition of general officer.--Section 101(b)(4) is 
        amended by striking ``or Marine Corps'' and inserting ``Marine 
        Corps, or Space Force''.
            (4) Temporary appointments to positions designated to carry 
        the grade of general or lieutenant general.--Section 601(e) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking ``or Marine Corps,'' and inserting 
                ``Marine Corps, or Space Force or''; and
                    (B) by striking ``or the commensurate grades in the 
                Space Force,''.
            (5) Retired grade of officers.--Section 1370 is amended as 
        follows:
                    (A) Subsection (a)(2) is amended by striking ``rear 
                admiral in the Navy, or the equivalent grade in the 
                Space Force'' both places it appears and inserting ``or 
                rear admiral in the Navy''.
                    (B) Subsection (b) is amended --
                            (i) in paragraph (1)--
                                    (I) by striking ``or Marine Corps'' 
                                and all that follows through ``the 
                                Space Force,'' and inserting ``Marine 
                                Corps, or Space Force or lieutenant in 
                                the Navy,''; and
                                    (II) in subparagraph (B), by 
                                striking ``major general'' and all that 
                                follows through ``Space Force'' and 
                                inserting ``major general or rear 
                                admiral'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (4), by striking ``or 
                        Marine Corps'' and all that follows through 
                        ``Space Force,'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, 
                        or Space Force or captain in the Navy,'';
                            (iii) in paragraph (5)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (A), by 
                                striking ``or Marine Corps'' and all 
                                that follows through ``Space Force,'' 
                                and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space 
                                Force or lieutenant commander in the 
                                Navy,'';
                                    (II) in subparagraph (B), by 
                                striking ``or Marine Corps'' and all 
                                that follows through ``Space Force,'' 
                                and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space 
                                Force or commander or captain in the 
                                Navy,''; and
                                    (III) in subparagraph (C), by 
                                striking ``or Marine Corps'' and all 
                                that follows through ``Space Force,'' 
                                and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space 
                                Force or rear admiral (lower half) or 
                                rear admiral in the Navy,''; and
                            (iv) in paragraph (6), by striking ``, or 
                        an equivalent grade in the Space Force,''.
                    (C) Subsection (c)(1) is amended by striking ``or 
                Marine Corps'' and all that follows through ``Space 
                Force'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force or 
                vice admiral or admiral in the Navy''.
                    (D) Subsection (d) is amended--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``or 
                        Marine Corps'' and all that follows through 
                        ``Space Force'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, 
                        or Space Force or rear admiral in the Navy''; 
                        and
                            (ii) in paragraph (3), by striking ``or 
                        Marine Corps'' and all that follows through 
                        ``Space Force,'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, 
                        or Space Force or captain in the Navy,''.
                    (E) Subsection (e)(2) is amended by striking ``or 
                Marine Corps'' and all that follows through ``Space 
                Force,'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force 
                or vice admiral or admiral in the Navy,''.
                    (F) Subsection (f) is amended --
                            (i) in paragraph (3)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (A), by 
                                striking ``or Marine Corps'' and all 
                                that follows through ``Space Force,'' 
                                and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space 
                                Force or rear admiral in the Navy''; 
                                and
                                    (II) in subparagraph (B), by 
                                striking ``or Marine Corps'' and all 
                                that follows through ``Space Force'' 
                                and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space 
                                Force or vice admiral or admiral in the 
                                Navy''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (6)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (A), by 
                                striking ``or Marine Corps'' and all 
                                that follows through ``Space Force,'' 
                                and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space 
                                Force or rear admiral in the Navy''; 
                                and
                                    (II) in subparagraph (B), by 
                                striking ``or Marine Corps'' and all 
                                that follows through ``Space Force,'' 
                                and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space 
                                Force or vice admiral or admiral in the 
                                Navy''.
            (6) Honorary promotions.--Sections 1563(c)(1) and 
        1563a(a)(1) are each amended--
                    (A) by striking ``general,'' and inserting 
                ``general or''; and
                    (B) by striking ``, or an equivalent grade in the 
                Space Force''.
            (7) Air force inspector general.--Section 9020(a) is 
        amended by striking ``the general, flag, or equivalent officers 
        of''.
    (b) Other Title 10 Amendments.--Such title is further amended as 
follows:
            (1) Limitation on number of retired members ordered to 
        active duty.--Section 690(a) is amended by striking ``or Marine 
        Corps,'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force,''.
            (2) The uniform.--Section 772(i) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``an Air Force School'' and 
                inserting ``an Air Force or Space Force school''; and
                    (B) by striking ``aviation badges of the Air 
                Force'' and inserting ``aviation or space badges of the 
                Air Force or Space Force''.
            (3) Membership in military unions, organizing of military 
        unions, and recognition of military unions prohibited.--Section 
        976(a)(1)(C) is amended by inserting ``or the Space Force'' 
        after ``member of a Reserve component''.
            (4) Limitation on enlisted aides.--Section 981 is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``Marine Corps, 
                Air Force,'' and inserting ``Air Force, Marine Corps, 
                Space Force,'';
                    (B) in subsection (b), by striking ``and Marine 
                Corps'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, and Space 
                Force''; and
                    (C) in subsection (c)(1), by inserting ``Space 
                Force,'' after ``Marine Corps,''.
            (5) Definition of veteran for purposes of funeral honors.--
        Section 1491(h)(1) is amended by striking ``or air service'' 
        and inserting ``air, or space service''.
            (6) Housing for recruits.--Section 9419(d) is amended by 
        inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``training program of 
        the Air Force''.
            (7) Charter of chief of space operations.--Section 9082 is 
        amended as follows:
                    (A) Cross-reference correction.--Subsection (d)(5) 
                is amended by striking ``sections'' and all that 
                follows through ``of law'' and inserting ``sections 171 
                and 3104 of this title and other provisions of law''.
                    (B) Elapsed-time provision.--Subsection (e)(1) is 
                amended by striking ``Commencing'' and all that follows 
                through ``the Chief'' and inserting ``The Chief''.

SEC. 1852. OTHER PROVISIONS OF LAW.

    (a) Trade Act of 1974.--Section 233(i)(1) of the Trade Act of 1974 
(19 U.S.C. 2293(i)(1)) is amended by inserting ``, or a member of the 
Space Force,'' after ``a member of a reserve component of the Armed 
Forces''.
    (b) Title 28, United States Code (judiciary and Judicial 
Procedure).--Section 631(c) of title 28, United States Code is amended 
by inserting ``, members of the Space Force'' before ``, and members of 
the Army National Guard''.
    (c) Servicemembers Civil Relief Act.--The Servicemembers Civil 
Relief Act (50 U.S.C. 3901 et seq.) is amended as follows:
            (1) Definition of military service.--Section 101(2)(A) (50 
        U.S.C. 3911(2)(A)) is amended by inserting ``Space Force,'' 
        after ``Marine Corps,''.
            (2) Same rights and protections as reserves ordered to 
        report for military service.--Section 106 (50 U.S.C. 3917) is 
        amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Treatment of Members of Space Force.--The provisions of 
subsection (a) apply to a member of the Space Force who is ordered to 
report for military service in the same manner as to a member of a 
reserve component who is ordered to report for military service.''.
            (3) Exercise of rights under scra.--Section 108(5) (50 
        U.S.C. 3919(5)) is amended by inserting ``or as a member of the 
        Space Force'' before the period at the end.

            DIVISION B--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 2001. SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024''.

SEC. 2002. EXPIRATION OF AUTHORIZATIONS AND AMOUNTS REQUIRED TO BE 
              SPECIFIED BY LAW.

    (a) Expiration of Authorizations After Three Years.--Except as 
provided in subsection (b), all authorizations contained in titles XXI 
through XXVII for military construction projects, land acquisition, 
family housing projects and facilities, and contributions to the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program (and 
authorizations of appropriations therefor) shall expire on the later 
of--
            (1) October 1, 2026; or
            (2) the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds 
        for military construction for fiscal year 2027.
    (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to authorizations 
for military construction projects, land acquisition, family housing 
projects and facilities, and contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization Security Investment Program (and authorizations of 
appropriations therefor), for which appropriated funds have been 
obligated before the later of--
            (1) October 1, 2026; or
            (2) the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds 
        for fiscal year 2027 for military construction projects, land 
        acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, or 
        contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
        Security Investment Program.

SEC. 2003. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    Titles XXI through XXVII shall take effect on the later of--
            (1) October 1, 2023; or
            (2) the date of the enactment of this Act.

                 TITLE XXI--ARMY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 2101. AUTHORIZED ARMY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Army may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Army: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                  Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama........................................  Redstone Arsenal..............................      $50,000,000
Georgia........................................  Fort Eisenhower...............................     $163,000,000
Hawaii.........................................  Aliamanu Military Reservation.................      $20,000,000
                                                 Fort Shafter..................................      $23,000,000
                                                 Helemano Military Reservation.................      $33,000,000
                                                 Schofield Barracks............................      $37,000,000
Kansas.........................................  Fort Riley....................................     $105,000,000
Kentucky.......................................  Fort Campbell.................................      $38,000,000
Louisiana......................................  Fort Johnson..................................      $13,400,000
Massachusetts..................................  Soldier Systems Center Natick.................      $18,500,000
Michigan.......................................  Detroit Arsenal...............................      $72,000,000
North Carolina.................................  Fort Liberty..................................     $154,500,000
Pennsylvania...................................  Letterkenny Army Depot........................      $89,000,000
Texas..........................................  Fort Bliss....................................      $74,000,000
                                                 Red River Army Depot..........................     $113,000,000
Washington.....................................  Joint Base Lewis-McChord......................     $100,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Army may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Army: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                 Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Germany........................................  Grafenwoehr...................................      $10,400,000
                                                 Hohenfels.....................................      $56,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (c) Prototype Project.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the 
authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available for 
military construction projects as specified in the funding table in 
section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may carry out a military 
construction project for the installation, and in the amount, set forth 
in the following table as a prototype project under the pilot program 
under section 4022(i) of title 10, United States Code, notwithstanding 
subchapters I and III of chapter 169 and chapters 221 and 223 of title 
10, United States Code:

                                             Army Prototype Project
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                        Installation                        Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
North Carolina.................................  Fort Liberty..................................      $85,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2102. FAMILY HOUSING.

    (a) Construction and Acquisition.--Using amounts appropriated 
pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and 
available for military family housing functions as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may construct 
or acquire family housing units (including land acquisition and 
supporting facilities) at the installations or locations, in the number 
of units, and in the amounts set forth in the following table:

                                              Army: Family Housing
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                Country                    Installation or Location             Units                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Germany................................  Baumholder.................  Family Housing New             $78,746,000
                                                                       Construction............
Kwajalein..............................  Kwajalein Atoll............  Family Housing                 $98,600,000
                                                                       Replacement Construction
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Improvements to Military Family Housing Units.--Subject to 
section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using amounts 
appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
2103(a) and available for military family housing functions as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Army may improve existing military family housing units in an amount 
not to exceed $100,000,000.
    (c) Planning and Design.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to 
the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available 
for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table 
in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may carry out architectural 
and engineering services and construction design activities with 
respect to the construction or improvement of family housing units in 
an amount not to exceed $27,549,000.

SEC. 2103. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, ARMY.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2023, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Army as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2101 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.

SEC. 2104. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO USE CASH PAYMENTS IN SPECIAL 
              ACCOUNT FROM LAND CONVEYANCE, NATICK SOLDIER SYSTEMS 
              CENTER, MASSACHUSETTS.

    Section 2844(c)(2)(C) of the Military Construction Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (division B of Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 
1865) is amended by striking ``October 1, 2025'' and inserting 
``October 1, 2027''.

SEC. 2105. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT FISCAL YEAR 2018 PROJECT 
              AT KUNSAN AIR BASE, KOREA.

    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (division B of 
Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1817), the authorization set forth in the 
table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2101(b) of that Act 
(131 Stat. 1819) and extended and modified by subsections (a) and (b) 
of section 2106 of the Military Construction Act for Fiscal Year 2023 
(division B of Public Law 117-263), shall remain in effect until 
October 1, 2024, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing 
funds for military construction for fiscal year 2025, whichever is 
later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                                  Army: Extension of 2018 Project Authorization
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                    Original
                Country                  Installation or Location            Project           Authorized Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Korea.................................  Kunsan Air Base...........  Unmanned Aerial Vehicle          $53,000,000
                                                                     Hangar..................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2106. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2019 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) Army Construction and Land Acquisition.--
            (1) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
        Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 
        (division B of Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2240), the 
        authorizations set forth in the table in paragraph (2), as 
        provided in section 2101 of that Act (132 Stat. 2241), shall 
        remain in effect until October 1, 2024, or the date of the 
        enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction 
        for fiscal year 2025, whichever is later.
            (2) Table.--The table referred to in paragraph (1) is as 
        follows:

                                 Army: Extension of 2019 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                    Original
             State/Country               Installation or Location            Project           Authorized Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Korea.................................  Camp Tango................  Command and Control              $17,500,000
                                                                     Facility................
Maryland..............................  Fort Meade................  Cantonment Area Roads....        $16,500,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Overseas Contingency Operations.--
            (1) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
        Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 
        (division B of Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2240), the 
        authorizations set forth in the table in paragraph (2), as 
        provided in section 2901 of that Act (132 Stat. 2286), shall 
        remain in effect until October 1, 2024, or the date of the 
        enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction 
        for fiscal year 2025, whichever is later.
            (2) Table.--The table referred to in paragraph (1) is as 
        follows:

                                 Army: Extension of 2019 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                    Original
                Country                  Installation or Location            Project           Authorized Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bulgaria..............................  Nevo Selo FOS.............  EDI: Ammunition Holding           $5,200,000
                                                                     Area....................
Romania...............................  Mihail Kogalniceanu FOS...  EDI: Explosives & Ammo           $21,651,000
                                                                     Load/Unload Apron.......
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2107. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2021 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) Army Construction and Land Acquisition.--
            (1) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
        Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 
        (division B of Public Law 116-283; 134 Stat. 4294), the 
        authorizations set forth in the table in paragraph (2), as 
        provided in section 2101(a) of that Act (134 Stat. 4295), shall 
        remain in effect until October 1, 2024, or the date of the 
        enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction 
        for fiscal year 2025, whichever is later.
            (2) Table.--The table referred to in paragraph (1) is as 
        follows:

                                 Army: Extension of 2021 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                    Original
                 State                   Installation or Location            Project           Authorized Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Arizona...............................  Yuma Proving Ground.......  Ready Building...........        $14,000,000
Georgia...............................  Fort Gillem...............  Forensic Lab.............        $71,000,000
Louisiana.............................  Fort Johnson..............  Information Systems              $25,000,000
                                                                     Facility................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Child Development Center, Georgia.--
            (1) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
        Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 
        (division B of Public Law 116-283; 134 Stat. 4294), the 
        authorization under section 2865 of that Act (10 U.S.C. 2802 
        note) for the project described in paragraph (2) in Fort 
        Eisenhower, Georgia, shall remain in effect until October 1, 
        2024, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds 
        for military construction for fiscal year 2025, whichever is 
        later.
            (2) Project described.--The project described in this 
        paragraph is the following:

                                  Army: Extension of 2021 Project Authorization
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                    Original
                 State                   Installation or Location            Project           Authorized Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Georgia...............................  Fort Eisenhower...........  Child Development Center.        $21,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                 TITLE XXII--NAVY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 2201. AUTHORIZED NAVY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2203(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Navy may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Navy: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                  Installation or Location                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California..................................  Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center Twentynine       $42,100,000
                                               Palms...........................................
                                              Port Hueneme.....................................     $110,000,000
Connecticut.................................  Naval Submarine Base New London..................     $331,718,000
District of Columbia........................  Marine Barracks Washington.......................     $131,800,000
Florida.....................................  Naval Air Station Whiting Field..................     $141,500,000
Guam........................................  Andersen Air Force Base..........................     $497,620,000
                                              Joint Region Marianas............................     $174,540,000
                                              Naval Base Guam..................................     $946,500,000
Hawaii......................................  Marine Corps Base Kaneohe Bay....................     $227,350,000
Maryland....................................  Fort Meade.......................................     $186,480,000
                                              Naval Air Station Patuxent River.................     $141,700,000
North Carolina..............................  Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point............     $270,150,000
                                              Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune...................     $183,780,000
Pennsylvania................................  Naval Surface Warfare Center Philadelphia........      $88,200,000
Virginia....................................  Dam Neck Annex...................................     $109,680,000
                                              Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek - Fort           $35,000,000
                                               Story.
                                              Marine Corps Base Quantico.......................     $127,120,000
                                              Naval Station Norfolk............................     $158,095,000
                                              Naval Weapons Station Yorktown...................     $221,920,000
Washington..................................  Naval Base Kitsap................................     $245,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2203(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Navy may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Navy: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Country                                 Installation or Location                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Djibouti....................................  Camp Lemonnier...................................     $106,600,000
Italy.......................................  Naval Air Station Sigonella......................      $77,072,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (c) Prototype Project.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the 
authorization of appropriations in section 2203(a) and available for 
military construction projects as specified in the funding table in 
section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may carry out a military 
construction project for the installation, and in the amount, set forth 
in the following table as a prototype project under the pilot program 
under section 4022(i) of title 10, United States Code, notwithstanding 
subchapters I and III of chapter 169 and chapters 221 and 223 of title 
10, United States Code:

                                             Navy Prototype Project
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                        Installation                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Virginia....................................  Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek - Fort           $35,000,000
                                               Story...........................................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2202. FAMILY HOUSING.

    (a) Construction and Acquisition.--Using amounts appropriated 
pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2203(a) and 
available for military family housing functions as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may construct 
or acquire family housing units (including land acquisition and 
supporting facilities) at the installations or locations, in the number 
of units, and in the amounts set forth in the following table:

                                              Navy: Family Housing
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           Installation or
               Country                         Location                  Units                    Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Guam.................................  Joint Region Marianas..  Replace Andersen         $121,906,000
                                                                 Housing Ph 8.
                                       Mariana Islands........  Replace Andersen         $83,126,000
                                                                 Housing (AF) PH7.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Improvements to Military Family Housing Units.--Subject to 
section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using amounts 
appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
2203(a) and available for military family housing functions as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Navy may improve existing military family housing units in an amount 
not to exceed $57,740,000.
    (c) Planning and Design.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to 
the authorization of appropriations in section 2203(a) and available 
for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table 
in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may carry out architectural 
and engineering services and construction design activities with 
respect to the construction or improvement of family housing units in 
an amount not to exceed $14,370,000.

SEC. 2203. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NAVY.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2023, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Navy, as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2201 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.

SEC. 2204. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2019 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) Navy Construction and Land Acquisition Projects.--
            (1) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
        Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 
        (division B of Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2240), the 
        authorizations set forth in the table in paragraph (2), as 
        provided in section 2201 of that Act (132 Stat. 2243), shall 
        remain in effect until October 1, 2024, or the date of the 
        enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction 
        for fiscal year 2025, whichever is later.
            (2) Table.--The table referred to in paragraph (1) is as 
        follows:

                                 Navy: Extension of 2019 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           Installation or                                 Original Authorized
            State/Country                      Location                 Project                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bahrain..............................  SW Asia................  Fleet Maintenance        $26,340,000
                                                                 Facility & TOC.
North Carolina.......................  Marine Corps Base Camp   2nd Radio BN Complex,    $51,300,000
                                        Lejeune.                 Phase 2.
South Carolina.......................  Marine Corps Air         Recycling/Hazardous      $9,517,000
                                        Station Beaufort.        Waste Facility.
Washington...........................  Bangor.................  Pier and Maintenance     $88,960,000
                                                                 Facility.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Laurel Bay Fire Station, South Carolina.--
            (1) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
        Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 
        (division B of Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2240), the 
        authorization under section 2810 of that Act (132 Stat. 2266) 
        for the project described in paragraph (2) shall remain in 
        effect until October 1, 2024, or the date of the enactment of 
        an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal 
        year 2025, whichever is later.
            (2) Project described.--The project described in this 
        paragraph is the following::

                                  Navy: Extension of 2019 Project Authorization
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           Installation or                                 Original Authorized
                State                          Location                 Project                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
South Carolina.......................  Marine Corps Air         Laurel Bay Fire Station  $10,750,000
                                        Station Beaufort.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (c) Overseas Contingency Operations.--
            (1) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
        Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 
        (division B of Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2240), the 
        authorization set forth in the table in paragraph (2), as 
        provided in section 2902 of that Act (132 Stat. 2286), shall 
        remain in effect until October 1, 2024, or the date of the 
        enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction 
        for fiscal year 2025, whichever is later.
            (2) Table.--The table referred to in paragraph (1) is as 
        follows:

                                 Navy: Extension of 2019 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           Installation or                                 Original Authorized
               Country                         Location                 Project                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Greece...............................  Naval Support Activity   EDI: Joint Mobility      $41,650,000
                                        Souda Bay.               Processing Center.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2205. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2021 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (division B of 
Public Law 116-283; 134 Stat. 4294), the authorizations set forth in 
the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2201 of that Act 
(134 Stat. 4297), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2024, or the 
date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
construction for fiscal year 2025, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                                 Navy: Extension of 2021 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           Installation or                                 Original Authorized
            State/Country                      Location                 Project                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California...........................  Twentynine Palms.......  Wastewater Treatment     $76,500,000
                                                                 Plant.
Guam.................................  Joint Region Marianas..  Joint Communication      $166,000,000
                                                                 Upgrade.
Maine................................  NCTAMS LANT Detachment   Perimeter Security.....  $26,100,000
                                        Cutler.
Nevada...............................  Fallon.................  Range Training Complex,  $29,040,000
                                                                 Phase I.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

              TITLE XXIII--AIR FORCE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 2301. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2303(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                       Air Force: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                  Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Florida.......................................  MacDill Air Force Base..........................    $131,000,000
                                                Patrick Space Force Base........................     $27,000,000
                                                Tyndall Air Force Base..........................    $252,000,000
Georgia                                         Robins Air Force Base...........................    $115,000,000
Guam..........................................  Joint Region Marianas...........................    $411,000,000
Massachusetts.................................  Hanscom Air Force Base..........................     $37,000,000
Mississippi...................................  Columbus Air Force Base.........................     $39,500,000
South Dakota..................................  Ellsworth Air Force Base........................    $235,000,000
Texas.........................................  Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland.................     $20,000,000
Utah..........................................  Hill Air Force Base.............................     $82,000,000
Wyoming.......................................  F.E. Warren Air Force Base......................     $85,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2303(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                      Air Force: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                 Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Australia.....................................  Royal Australian Air Force Base Darwin..........     $26,000,000
                                                Royal Australian Air Force Base Tindal..........    $130,500,000
Norway........................................  Rygge Air Station...............................    $119,000,000
Philippines...................................  Cesar Basa Air Base.............................     $35,000,000
Spain.........................................  Moron Air Base..................................     $26,000,000
United Kingdom................................  Royal Air Force Fairford........................     $47,000,000
                                                Royal Air Force Lakenheath......................     $78,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (c) Prototype Project.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the 
authorization of appropriations in section 2303(a) and available for 
military construction projects as specified in the funding table in 
section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may carry out a military 
construction project for the installation, and in the amount, set forth 
in the following table as a prototype project under the pilot program 
under section 4022(i) of title 10, United States Code, notwithstanding 
subchapters I and III of chapter 169 and chapters 221 and 223 of title 
10, United States Code:

                                           Air Force Prototype Project
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                        Installation                        Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Massachusetts.................................  Hanscom Air Force Base..........................     $37,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2302. FAMILY HOUSING.

    (a) Improvements to Military Family Housing Units.--Subject to 
section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using amounts 
appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
2303(a) and available for military family housing functions as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may improve existing military family housing units in an 
amount not to exceed $229,282,000.
    (b) Planning and Design.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to 
the authorization of appropriations in section 2303(a) and available 
for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table 
in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may carry out 
architectural and engineering services and construction design 
activities with respect to the construction or improvement of family 
housing units in an amount not to exceed $7,815,000.

SEC. 2303. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, AIR FORCE.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2023, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Air Force, as specified in 
the funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2301 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.

SEC. 2304. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2017 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) Air Force Construction and Land Acquisition Projects.--
            (1) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
        Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
        (division B of Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2688), the 
        authorizations set forth in the table in paragraph (2), as 
        provided in section 2301(b) of that Act (130 Stat. 2697) and 
        extended by section 2304 of the Military Construction 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (division B of Public 
        Law 117-181; 135 Stat. 2169), shall remain in effect until 
        October 1, 2024, or the date of the enactment of an Act 
        authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 
        2025, whichever is later.
            (2) Table.--The table referred to in paragraph (1) is as 
        follows:

                               Air Force: Extension of 2017 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                    Original
                Country                  Installation or Location            Project               Authorized
                                                                                                     Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Germany...............................  Ramstein Air Base.........  37 AS Squadron Operations/       $13,437,000
                                                                     Aircraft Maintenance
                                                                     Unit....................
                                        Spangdahlem Air Base......  Upgrade Hardened Aircraft         $2,700,000
                                                                     Shelters for F/A-22.....
Japan.................................  Yokota Air Force Base.....  C-130J Corrosion Control         $23,777,000
                                                                     Hangar..................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Overseas Contingency Operations.--
            (1) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
        Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
        (division B of Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2688), the 
        authorization set forth in the table in paragraph (2), as 
        provided in section 2902 of that Act (130 Stat. 2743) and 
        extended by section 2304 of the Military Construction 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (division B of Public 
        Law 117-181; 135 Stat. 2169), shall remain in effect until 
        October 1, 2024, or the date of the enactment of an Act 
        authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 
        2025, whichever is later.
            (2) Table.--The table referred to in paragraph (1) is as 
        follows:

                               Air Force: Extension of 2017 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                    Original
                Country                  Installation or Location            Project               Authorized
                                                                                                     Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Germany...............................  Spangdahlem Air Base......  F/A-22 Low Observable/           $12,000,000
                                                                     Composite Repair
                                                                     Facility................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2305. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2018 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) Air Force Construction and Land Acquisition Projects.--
            (1) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
        Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 
        (division B of Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1817), the 
        authorization set forth in the table in paragraph (2), as 
        provided in section 2301(a) of that Act (131 Stat. 1825) and 
        extended by section 2304(a) of the Military Construction 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (division B of Public 
        Law 117-263), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2024, or 
        the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for 
        military construction for fiscal year 2025, whichever is later.
            (2) Table.--The table referred to in paragraph (1) is as 
        follows:

                               Air Force: Extension of 2018 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                    Original
                 State                   Installation or Location            Project               Authorized
                                                                                                     Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Florida...............................  Tyndall Air Force Base....  Fire Station.............        $17,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Overseas Contingency Operations.--
            (1) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
        Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 
        (division B of Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1817), the 
        authorizations set forth in the table in paragraph (2), as 
        provided in section 2903 of that Act (131 Stat. 1876) and 
        extended by section 2304(b) of the Military Construction 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (division B of Public 
        Law 117-263), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2024, or 
        the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for 
        military construction for fiscal year 2025, whichever is later.
            (2) Table.--The table referred to in paragraph (1) is as 
        follows:

                               Air Force: Extension of 2018 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                    Original
                Country                  Installation or Location            Project               Authorized
                                                                                                     Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Hungary...............................  Kecskemet Air Base........  ERI: Airfield Upgrades...        $12,900,000
                                        Kecskemet Air Base........  ERI: Construct Parallel          $30,000,000
                                                                     Taxiway.................
                                        Kecskemet Air Base........  ERI: Increase POL Storage        $12,500,000
                                                                     Capacity................
Luxembourg............................  Sanem.....................  ERI: ECAOS Deployable            $67,400,000
                                                                     Airbase System Storage..
Slovakia..............................  Malacky...................  ERI: Airfield Upgrades...         $4,000,000
                                        Malacky...................  ERI: Increase POL Storage        $20,000,000
                                                                     Capacity................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2306. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2019 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) Air Force Construction and Land Acquisition Projects.--
            (1) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
        Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 
        (division B of Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2240), the 
        authorizations set forth in the table in paragraph (2), as 
        provided in section 2301 of that Act (132 Stat. 2246), shall 
        remain in effect until October 1, 2024, or the date of the 
        enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction 
        for fiscal year 2025, whichever is later.
            (2) Table.--The table referred to in paragraph (1) is as 
        follows:

                               Air Force: Extension of 2019 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                    Original
             State/Country               Installation or Location            Project               Authorized
                                                                                                     Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Mariana Islands.......................  Tinian....................  APR-Cargo Pad with               $46,000,000
                                                                     Taxiway Extension.......
                                        Tinian....................  APR-Maintenance Support           $4,700,000
                                                                     Facility................
Maryland..............................  Joint Base Andrews........  Child Development Center.        $13,000,000
                                        Joint Base Andrews........  PAR Relocate Haz Cargo           $37,000,000
                                                                     Pad and EOD Range.......
New Mexico............................  Holloman Air Force Base...  MQ-9 FTU Ops Facility....        $85,000,000
                                        Kirtland Air Force Base...  Wyoming Gate Upgrade for          $7,000,000
                                                                     Anti-Terrorism
                                                                     Compliance..............
United Kingdom........................  Royal Air Force Lakenheath  F-35 ADAL Conventional            $9,204,000
                                                                     Munitions MX............
Utah..................................  Hill Air Force Base.......  Composite Aircraft               $26,000,000
                                                                     Antenna Calibration Fac.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Overseas Contingency Operations.--
            (1) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
        Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 
        (division B of Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2240), the 
        authorizations set forth in the table in paragraph (2), as 
        provided in section 2903 of that Act (132 Stat. 2287), shall 
        remain in effect until October 1, 2024, or the date of the 
        enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction 
        for fiscal year 2025, whichever is later.
            (2) Table.--The table referred to in paragraph (1) is as 
        follows:

                               Air Force: Extension of 2019 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                    Original
                Country                  Installation or Location            Project               Authorized
                                                                                                     Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Slovakia..............................  Malacky...................  EDI: Regional Munitions          $59,000,000
                                                                     Storage Area............
United Kingdom........................  RAF Fairford..............  EDI: Construct DABS-FEV          $87,000,000
                                                                     Storage.................
                                        RAF Fairford..............  EDI: Munitions Holding           $19,000,000
                                                                     Area....................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2307. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2021 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) Air Force Construction and Land Acquisition Project.--
            (1) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
        Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 
        (division B of Public Law 116-283; 134 Stat. 4294), the 
        authorization set forth in the table in paragraph (2), as 
        provided in section 2301 of that Act (134 Stat. 4299), shall 
        remain in effect until October 1, 2024, or the date of the 
        enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction 
        for fiscal year 2025, whichever is later.
            (2) Table.--The table referred to in paragraph (1) is as 
        follows:

                               Air Force: Extension of 2021 Project Authorization
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                    Original
                 State                   Installation or Location            Project               Authorized
                                                                                                     Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Virginia..............................  Joint Base Langley-Eustis.  Access Control Point Main         $19,500,00
                                                                     Gate with Lang Acq......
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Overseas Contingency Operations.--
            (1) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
        Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 
        (division B of Public Law 116-283; 134 Stat. 4294), the 
        authorizations set forth in the table in paragraph (2), as 
        provided in section 2902 of that Act (134 Stat. 4373), shall 
        remain in effect until October 1, 2024, or the date of the 
        enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction 
        for fiscal year 2025, whichever is later.
            (2) Table.--The table referred to in paragraph (1) is as 
        follows:

                               Air Force: Extension of 2021 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                    Original
                Country                  Installation or Location            Project               Authorized
                                                                                                     Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Germany...............................  Ramstein..................  EDI: Rapid Airfield              $36,345,000
                                                                     Damage Repair Storage...
                                        Spangdahlem Air Base......  EDI: Rapid Airfield              $25,824,000
                                                                     Damage Repair Storage...
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

           TITLE XXIV--DEFENSE AGENCIES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 2401. AUTHORIZED DEFENSE AGENCIES CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
              ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of 
Defense may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                   Defense Agencies: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                Installation or Location                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama.....................................  Redstone Arsenal..............................        $147,975,000
California..................................  Marine Corps Air Station Miramar..............        $103,000,000
                                              Naval Base Coronado...........................         $51,000,000
                                              Naval Base San Diego..........................        $101,644,000
Delaware....................................  Dover Air Force Base..........................         $30,500,000
Maryland....................................  Fort Meade....................................        $885,000,000
                                              Joint Base Andrews............................         $38,300,000
Montana.....................................  Great Falls International Airport.............         $30,000,000
North Carolina..............................  Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune................         $70,000,000
Utah........................................  Hill Air Force Base...........................         $14,200,000
Virginia....................................  Fort Belvoir..................................        $185,000,000
                                              Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek - Fort           $61,000,000
                                               Story.
                                              Pentagon......................................         $30,600,000
Washington..................................  Joint Base Lewis - McChord....................         $62,000,000
                                              Manchester....................................         $71,000,000
                                              Naval Undersea Warfare Center Keyport.........         $37,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of 
Defense may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                   Defense Agencies: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Country                                Installation or Location                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cuba.........................................  Guantanamo Bay Naval Station..................       $257,000,000
Germany......................................  Baumholder....................................        $57,700,000
                                               Ramstein Air Base.............................       $181,764,000
Honduras.....................................  Soto Cano Air Base............................        $41,300,000
Japan........................................  Kadena Air Base...............................       $100,300,000
Spain........................................  Naval Station Rota............................        $80,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2402. AUTHORIZED ENERGY RESILIENCE AND CONSERVATION INVESTMENT 
              PROGRAM PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for energy conservation projects as specified in the funding table in 
section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may carry out energy 
conservation projects under chapter 173 of title 10, United States 
Code, for the installations or locations inside the United States, and 
in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                    ERCIP Projects: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                Installation or Location                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California..................................  Marine Corps Air Station Miramar..............         $30,550,000
                                              Naval Base San Diego..........................          $6,300,000
                                              Vandenberg Space Force Base...................         $57,000,000
Colorado....................................  Buckley Space Force Base......................         $14,700,000
Georgia.....................................  Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay................         $49,500,000
Kansas......................................  Forbes Field..................................          $5,850,000
Missouri....................................  Lake City Army Ammunition Plant...............         $80,100,000
Nebraska....................................  Offutt Air Force Base.........................         $41,000,000
North Carolina..............................  Fort Liberty (Camp Mackall)...................         $10,500,000
Oklahoma....................................  Fort Sill.....................................         $76,650,000
Puerto Rico.................................  Fort Buchanan.................................         $56,000,000
Texas.......................................  Fort Cavazos..................................         $18,250,000
Virginia....................................  Pentagon......................................          $2,250,000
Washington..................................  Joint Base Lewis - McChord....................         $49,850,000
Wyoming.....................................  F.E. Warren Air Force Base....................         $25,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for energy conservation projects as specified in the funding table in 
section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may carry out energy 
conservation projects under chapter 173 of title 10, United States 
Code, for the installations or locations outside the United States, and 
in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                    ERCIP Projects: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Country                                Installation or Location                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Korea........................................  K-16 Air Base.................................         $5,650,000
Kuwait.......................................  Camp Buehring.................................        $18,850,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (c) Improvement of Conveyed Utility Systems.--In the case of a 
utility system that is conveyed under section 2688 of title 10, United 
States Code, and that only provides utility services to a military 
installation, notwithstanding subchapters I and III of chapter 169 and 
chapters 221 and 223 of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of 
Defense or the Secretary of a military department may authorize a 
contract with the conveyee of the utility system to carry out the 
military construction projects set forth in the following table:

                                     Improvement of Conveyed Utility Systems
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                 Installation or Location                  Project
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Nebraska.....................................  Offutt Air Force Base.........................      Microgrid and
                                                                                                    Backup Power
North Carolina...............................  Fort Liberty (Camp Mackall)...................      Microgrid and
                                                                                                    Backup Power
Texas........................................  Fort Cavazos..................................      Microgrid and
                                                                                                    Backup Power
Washington...................................  Joint Base Lewis - McChord....................   Power Generation
                                                                                                   and Microgrid
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2403. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, DEFENSE AGENCIES.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2023, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of Defense (other than the military 
departments), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2401 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.

SEC. 2404. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2018 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (division B of 
Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1817), the authorizations set forth in the 
table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2401(b) of that Act 
(131 Stat. 1829) and extended by section 2404 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (division B of 
Public Law 117-263), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2024, or 
the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
construction for fiscal year 2025, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                           Defense Agencies: Extension of 2018 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           Installation or                                 Original Authorized
               Country                         Location                 Project                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Japan................................  Iwakuni................  Construct Bulk Storage    $30,800,000
                                                                 Tanks PH 1............
Puerto Rico..........................  Punta Borinquen........  Ramey Unit School        $61,071,000
                                                                 Replacement...........
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2405. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN 
              FISCAL YEAR 2019 PROJECTS.

    (a) Extension.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
        Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 
        (division B of Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2240), the 
        authorizations set forth in the table in paragraph (2), as 
        provided in section 2401(b) of that Act (132 Stat. 2249), shall 
        remain in effect until October 1, 2024, or the date of the 
        enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction 
        for fiscal year 2025, whichever is later.
            (2) Table.--The table referred to in paragraph (1) is as 
        follows:

                           Defense Agencies: Extension of 2019 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           Installation or                                 Original Authorized
               Country                         Location                 Project                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Germany..............................  Baumholder.............  SOF Joint Parachute       $11,504,000
                                                                 Rigging Facility......
Japan................................  Camp McTureous.........  Betchel Elementary       $94,851,000
                                                                 School................
                                       Iwakuni................   Fuel Pier.............  $33,200,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Modification of Authority to Carry Out Fiscal Year 2019 Project 
in Baumholder, Germany.--
            (1) Modification of project authority.--In the case of the 
        authorization contained in the table in section 2401(b) of the 
        Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 
        (division B of Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2249) for 
        Baumholder, Germany, for construction of a SOF Joint Parachute 
        Rigging Facility, the Secretary of Defense may construct a 
        3,200 square meter facility.
            (2) Modification of project amounts.--
                    (A) Division b table.--The authorization table in 
                section 2401(b) of the Military Construction Defense 
                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (division B of 
                Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2249), as extended 
                pursuant to subsection (a), is amended in the item 
                relating to Baumholder, Germany, by striking 
                ``$11,504,000'' and inserting ``$23,000,000'' to 
                reflect the project modification made by paragraph (1).
                    (B) Division d table.--The funding table in section 
                4601 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-
                232; 132 Stat. 2406) is amended in the item relating to 
                Defense-wide, Baumholder, Germany, SOF Joint Parachute 
                Rigging Facility, by striking ``$11,504'' in the 
                Conference Authorized column and inserting ``$23,000'' 
                to reflect the project modification made by paragraph 
                (1).

SEC. 2406. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2021 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) Defense Agencies Construction and Land Acquisition Project.--
            (1) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
        Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 
        (division B of Public Law 116-283; 134 Stat. 4294), the 
        authorization set forth in the table in paragraph (2), as 
        provided in section 2401(b) of that Act (134 Stat. 4305), shall 
        remain in effect until October 1, 2024, or the date of the 
        enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction 
        for fiscal year 2025, whichever is later.
            (2) Table.--The table referred to in paragraph (1) is as 
        follows:

                            Defense Agencies: Extension of 2021 Project Authorization
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           Installation or                                 Original Authorized
               Country                         Location                 Project                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Japan................................  Def Fuel Support Point   Fuel Wharf.............   $49,500,000
                                        Tsurumi...............
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Energy Resilience and Conservation Investment Program 
Projects.--
            (1) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
        Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 
        (division B of Public Law 116-283; 134 Stat. 4294), the 
        authorizations set forth in the table in paragraph (2), as 
        provided in section 2402 of that Act (134 Stat. 4306), shall 
        remain in effect until October 1, 2024, or the date of the 
        enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction 
        for fiscal year 2025, whichever is later.
            (2) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as 
        follows:

                            ERCIP Projects: Extension of 2021 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           Installation or                                 Original Authorized
            State/Country                      Location                 Project                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Arkansas.............................  Ebbing Air National      PV Arrays and Battery     $2,600,000
                                        Guard Base............   Storage...............
California...........................  Marine Corps Air Ground  Install 10 Mw Battery    $11,646,000
                                        Combat Center            Energy Storage for
                                        Twentynine Palms......   Various Buildings.....
                                       Military Ocean Terminal  Military Ocean Terminal  $29,000,000
                                        Concord...............   Concord Microgrid.....
                                       Naval Support Activity   Cogeneration Plant at    $10,540,000
                                        Monterey..............   B236..................
Italy................................  Naval Support Activity   Smart Grid.............  $3,490,000
                                        Naples................
Nevada...............................  Creech Air Force Base..  Central Standby          $32,000,000
                                                                 Generators............
Virginia.............................  Naval Medical Center     Retro Air Handling       $611,000
                                        Portsmouth............   Units From Constant
                                                                 Volume; Reheat to
                                                                 Variable Air Volume...
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2407. ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2022 
              PROJECTS.

    In the case of a utility system that is conveyed under section 2688 
of title 10, United States Code, and that only provides utility 
services to a military installation, notwithstanding subchapters I and 
III of chapter 169 and chapters 221 and 223 of title 10, United States 
Code, the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a military 
department may authorize a contract with the conveyee of the utility 
system to carry out the military construction projects set forth in the 
following table:

                                     Improvement of Conveyed Utility Systems
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                 Installation or Location                  Project
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama......................................  Fort Novosel..................................  Construct a 10 MW
                                                                                                  RICE Generator
                                                                                                Plant and Micro-
                                                                                                   Grid Controls
Georgia......................................  Fort Moore....................................    Construct 4.8MW
                                                                                                  Generation and
                                                                                                       Microgrid
                                                Fort Stewart.................................  Construct a 10 MW
                                                                                               Generation Plant,
                                                                                                  with Microgrid
                                                                                                        Controls
New York.....................................  Fort Drum.....................................         Well Field
                                                                                               Expansion Project
North Carolina...............................  Fort Liberty..................................    Construct 10 MW
                                                                                                       Microgrid
                                                                                                       Utilizing
                                                                                                Existing and New
                                                                                                      Generators
                                               Fort Liberty..................................       Fort Liberty
                                                                                                 Emergency Water
                                                                                                          System
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2408. ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2023 
              PROJECTS.

    In the case of a utility system that is conveyed under section 2688 
of title 10, United States Code, and that only provides utility 
services to a military installation, notwithstanding subchapters I and 
III of chapter 169 and chapters 221 and 223 of title 10, United States 
Code, the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a military 
department may authorize a contract with the conveyee of the utility 
system to carry out the military construction projects set forth in the 
following table:

                                     Improvement of Conveyed Utility Systems
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                 Installation or Location                  Project
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Georgia......................................  Fort Stewart - Hunter Army Airfield...........   Power Generation
                                                                                                   and Microgrid
Kansas.......................................  Fort Riley....................................   Power Generation
                                                                                                   and Microgrid
Texas........................................  Fort Cavazos..................................   Power Generation
                                                                                                   and Microgrid
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                   TITLE XXV--INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS

  Subtitle A--North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
                                Program

SEC. 2501. AUTHORIZED NATO CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    The Secretary of Defense may make contributions for the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program as provided in 
section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, in an amount not to 
exceed the sum of the amount authorized to be appropriated for this 
purpose in section 2502 and the amount collected from the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization as a result of construction previously 
financed by the United States.

SEC. 2502. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NATO.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2023, for contributions by the Secretary 
of Defense under section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, for the 
share of the United States of the cost of projects for the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program authorized by 
section 2501 as specified in the funding table in section 4601.

             Subtitle B--Host Country In-kind Contributions

SEC. 2511. REPUBLIC OF KOREA FUNDED CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.

    Pursuant to agreement with the Republic of Korea for required in-
kind contributions, the Secretary of Defense may accept military 
construction projects for the installations or locations in the 
Republic of Korea, and in the amounts, set forth in the following 
table:

                                 Republic of Korea Funded Construction Projects
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           Installation or
              Component                        Location                 Project                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army.................................  Camp Bonifas...........  Vehicle Maintenance      $7,700,000
                                                                 Shop.
Army.................................  Camp Carroll...........  Humidity-Controlled      $189,000,000
                                                                 Warehouse.
Army.................................  Camp Humphreys.........  Airfield Services        $7,100,000
                                                                 Storage Warehouse.
Army.................................  Camp Walker............  Consolidated Fire and    $48,000,000
                                                                 Military Police
                                                                 Station.
Army.................................  Pusan..................  Warehouse Facility.....  $40,000,000
Navy.................................  Chinhae................  Electrical Switchgear    $6,000,000
                                                                 Building.
Air Force............................  Osan Air Base..........  Consolidated Operations  $46,000,000
                                                                 Group and Maintenance
                                                                 Group Headquarters.
Air Force............................  Osan Air Base..........  Flight Line Dining       $6,800,000
                                                                 Facility.
Air Force............................  Osan Air Base..........  Reconnaissance Squadron  $30,000,000
                                                                 Operations and
                                                                 Avionics Facility.
Air Force............................  Osan Air Base..........  Repair Aircraft          $8,000,000
                                                                 Maintenance Hangar
                                                                 B1732.
Air Force............................  Osan Air Base..........  Upgrade Electrical       $46,000,000
                                                                 Distribution East,
                                                                 Phase 2.
Air Force............................  Osan Air Base..........  Water Supply Treatment   $22,000,000
                                                                 Facility.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2512. REPUBLIC OF POLAND FUNDED CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.

    Pursuant to agreement with the Republic of Poland for required in-
kind contributions, the Secretary of Defense may accept military 
construction projects for the installations or locations in the 
Republic of Poland, and in the amounts, set forth in the following 
table:

                                 Republic of Poland Funded Construction Projects
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           Installation or
               Country                         Location                 Project                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army.................................  Powidz.................  Barracks and Dining      $93,000,000
                                                                 Facility.
Army.................................  Powidz.................  Rotary Wing Aircraft     $35,000,000
                                                                 Apron.
Army.................................  Swietoszow.............  Bulk Fuel Storage......  $35,000,000
Army.................................  Swietoszow.............  Rail Extension and       $7,300,000
                                                                 Railhead.
Air Force............................  Wroclaw................  Aerial Port of           $59,000,000
                                                                 Debarkation Ramp.
Air Force............................  Wroclaw................  Taxiways to Aerial Port  $39,000,000
                                                                 of Debarkation Ramp.
Defense-wide.........................  Lubliniec..............  Special Operations       $16,200,000
                                                                 Forces Company
                                                                 Operations Facility.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

            TITLE XXVI--GUARD AND RESERVE FORCES FACILITIES

SEC. 2601. AUTHORIZED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
              ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the Army National Guard locations inside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                               Army National Guard
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                          Location                           Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Arizona.....................................  Surprise Readiness Center........................      $15,000,000
Florida.....................................  Camp Blanding....................................      $11,000,000
Idaho.......................................  Jerome County Regional Site......................      $17,000,000
Illinois....................................  North Riverside Armory...........................      $24,000,000
Kentucky                                      Burlington.......................................      $16,400,000
Mississippi                                   Southaven........................................      $22,000,000
Missouri....................................  Belle Fontaine...................................      $28,000,000
New Hampshire...............................  Littleton........................................      $23,000,000
New Mexico..................................  Rio Rancho Training Site.........................      $11,000,000
New York....................................  Lexington Avenue Armory..........................      $90,000,000
Ohio........................................  Camp Perry Joint Training Center.................      $19,200,000
Oregon                                        Washington County Readiness Center...............      $26,000,000
Pennsylvania................................  Hermitage Readiness Center.......................      $13,600,000
Rhode Island................................  North Kingstown..................................      $30,000,000
South Carolina..............................  Aiken County Readiness Center....................      $20,000,000
                                              McCrady Training Center..........................       $7,900,000
Virginia....................................  Sandston RC & FMS 1..............................      $20,000,000
Wisconsin...................................  Viroqua..........................................      $18,200,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2602. AUTHORIZED ARMY RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
              PROJECTS.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the Army Reserve locations inside the United 
States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                                  Army Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                          Location                           Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama.....................................  Birmingham.......................................      $57,000,000
Arizona.....................................  Queen Creek......................................      $12,000,000
California..................................  Fort Hunter Liggett..............................      $40,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2603. AUTHORIZED NAVY RESERVE AND MARINE CORPS RESERVE 
              CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve 
locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in 
the following table:

                                      Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                          Location                           Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Michigan....................................  Battle Creek.....................................      $24,549,000
Virginia....................................  Marine Forces Reserve Dam Neck Virginia Beach....      $12,400,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2604. AUTHORIZED AIR NATIONAL GUARD CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
              ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out 
military construction projects for the Air National Guard locations 
inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the 
following table:

                                               Air National Guard
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                          Location                           Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama.....................................  Montgomery Regional Airport......................       $7,000,000
Alaska......................................  Joint Base Elmendorf - Richardson................       $7,000,000
Arizona.....................................  Tucson International Airport.....................      $11,600,000
Arkansas....................................  Ebbing Air National Guard Base...................      $76,000,000
Colorado....................................  Buckley Space Force Base.........................      $12,000,000
Indiana.....................................  Fort Wayne International Airport.................       $8,900,000
Oregon......................................  Portland International Airport...................      $71,500,000
Pennsylvania................................  Harrisburg International Airport.................       $8,000,000
Wisconsin...................................  Truax Field......................................       $5,200,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2605. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
              ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out 
military construction projects for the Air Force Reserve locations 
inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the 
following table:

                                                Air Force Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                          Location                           Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Arizona.....................................  Davis-Monthan Air Force Base.....................       $8,500,000
California..................................  March Air Reserve Base...........................     $226,500,000
Guam........................................  Joint Region Marianas............................      $27,000,000
Louisiana...................................  Barksdale Air Force Base.........................       $7,000,000
Texas.......................................  Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Fort Worth..      $16,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2606. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVE.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2023, for the costs of acquisition, 
architectural and engineering services, and construction of facilities 
for the Guard and Reserve Forces, and for contributions therefor, under 
chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code (including the cost of 
acquisition of land for those facilities), as specified in the funding 
table in section 4601.

SEC. 2607. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT FISCAL YEAR 2018 PROJECT 
              AT HULMAN REGIONAL AIRPORT, INDIANA.

    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (division B of 
Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1817), the authorization set forth in the 
table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2604 of that Act (131 
Stat. 1836) and extended by section 2608 of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (division B of Public Law 117-
263), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2024, or the date of the 
enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for 
fiscal year 2025, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                       National Guard and Reserve: Extension of 2018 Project Authorization
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           Installation or                                 Original Authorized
                State                          Location                 Project                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Indiana..............................  Hulman Regional Airport  Construct Small Arms     $8,000,000
                                                                 Range.................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2608. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT FISCAL YEAR 2019 PROJECT 
              AT FRANCIS S. GABRESKI AIRPORT, NEW YORK.

    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (division B of 
Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2240), the authorization set forth in the 
table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2604 of that Act (132 
Stat. 2255), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2024, or the date 
of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction 
for fiscal year 2025, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                       National Guard and Reserve: Extension of 2019 Project Authorization
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           Installation or                                 Original Authorized
                State                          Location                 Project                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
New York.............................  Francis S. Gabreski      Security Forces/Comm.    $20,000,000
                                        Airport...............   Training Facility.....
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2609. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2021 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (division B of 
Public Law 116-283; 134 Stat. 4294), the authorizations set forth in 
the table in subsection (b), as provided in sections 2601, 2602, and 
2604 of that Act (134 Stat. 4312, 4313, 4314), shall remain in effect 
until October 1, 2024, or the date of the enactment of an Act 
authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2025, 
whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                      National Guard and Reserve: Extension of 2021 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           Installation or                                 Original Authorized
            State/Country                      Location                 Project                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Arkansas.............................  Fort Chaffee...........  National Guard           $15,000,000
                                                                 Readiness Center......
California...........................  Bakersfield............  National Guard Vehicle   $9,300,000
                                                                 Maintenance Shop......
Colorado.............................  Peterson Space Force     National Guard           $15,000,000
                                        Base..................   Readiness Center......
Guam.................................  Joint Region Marianas..   Space Control Facility  $20,000,000
                                                                 #5....................
Ohio.................................  Columbus...............  National Guard           $15,000,000
                                                                 Readiness Center......
Massachusetts........................  Devens Reserve Forces    Automated Multipurpose   $8,700,000
                                        Training Area.........   Machine Gun Range.....
North Carolina.......................  Asheville..............  Army Reserve Center/     $24,000,000
                                                                 Land..................
Puerto Rico..........................  Fort Allen.............  National Guard           $37,000,000
                                                                 Readiness Center......
South Carolina.......................   Joint Base Charleston.  National Guard           $15,000,000
                                                                 Readiness Center......
Texas................................  Fort Worth.............  Aircraft Maintenance      $6,000,000
                                                                 Hangar Addition/Alt...
                                       Joint Base San Antonio.  F-16 Mission Training    $10,800,000
                                                                 Center................
Virgin Islands.......................  St. Croix..............  Army Aviation Support     $28,000,000
                                                                 Facility (AASF).......
                                       .......................  CST Ready Building.....  $11,400,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2610. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT FISCAL YEAR 2022 
              PROJECT AT NICKELL MEMORIAL ARMORY, KANSAS.

    (a) Transfer Authority.--From amounts appropriated for ``Military 
Construction, Army National Guard'' pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117-81, 135 Stat. 2315), the Secretary 
of Defense may transfer not more than $420,000 to an appropriation for 
``Military Construction, Air National Guard'' for use for studying, 
planning, designing, and architect and engineer services for a 
sensitive compartmented information facility project at Nickell 
Memorial Armory, Kansas.
    (b) Merger of Amounts Transferred.--Any amount transferred under 
subsection (a) shall be merged with and available for the same 
purposes, and for the same time period, as the ``Military Construction, 
Air National Guard'' appropriation to which transferred.
    (c) Authority.--Using amounts transferred pursuant to subsection 
(a), the Secretary of the Air Force may carry out study, planning, 
design, and architect and engineer services activities for a sensitive 
compartmented information facility project at Nickell Memorial Armory, 
Kansas.

SEC. 2611. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT FISCAL YEAR 2023 
              PROJECT AT CAMP PENDLETON, CALIFORNIA.

    In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2602 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2023 (division B of Public Law 117-263) and specified in the funding 
table in section 4601 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263) for Camp 
Pendleton, California, for construction of an Area Maintenance Support 
Activity, the Secretary of the Army may construct a 15,000 square foot 
facility.

SEC. 2612. AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECTS 
              AT THE FIRST CITY TROOP READINESS CENTER IN PHILADELPHIA, 
              PENNSYLVANIA.

    The Chief of the National Guard Bureau may expend amounts available 
to the Army National Guard for facilities sustainment, restoration, and 
modernization to conduct restoration and modernization projects at the 
First City Troop Readiness Center in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, if--
            (1) the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has a sufficient 
        remaining lease term for such center to realize the full 
        lifecycle benefit of such a project;
            (2) the Federal contribution for such a project does not 
        exceed 50 percent of the cost of the project (inclusive of all 
        project costs); and
            (3) the Chief of the National Guard Bureau notifies the 
        Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives not less than 15 days before awarding a 
        contract for such a project, which shall include an explanation 
        of the sufficiency of remaining lease term to justify the 
        investment.

          TITLE XXVII--BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ACTIVITIES

SEC. 2701. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR BASE REALIGNMENT AND 
              CLOSURE ACTIVITIES FUNDED THROUGH DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              BASE CLOSURE ACCOUNT.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2023, for base realignment and closure 
activities, including real property acquisition and military 
construction projects, as authorized by the Defense Base Closure and 
Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of Public Law 101-510; 10 
U.S.C. 2687 note) and funded through the Department of Defense Base 
Closure Account established by section 2906 of such Act, as specified 
in the funding table in section 4601.

SEC. 2702. PROHIBITION ON CONDUCTING ADDITIONAL BASE REALIGNMENT AND 
              CLOSURE (BRAC) ROUND.

    Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize an additional 
Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round.

SEC. 2703. CLOSURE AND DISPOSAL OF THE PUEBLO CHEMICAL DEPOT, PUEBLO 
              COUNTY, COLORADO.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Army shall close the Pueblo 
Chemical Depot in Pueblo County, Colorado (in this section referred to 
as the ``Depot''), not later than one year after the completion of the 
chemical demilitarization mission at such location in accordance with 
the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, 
Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on their Destruction, done 
at Geneva September 3, 1992, and entered into force April 29, 1997 
(commonly referred to as the ``Chemical Weapons Convention'').
    (b) Procedures.--The Secretary of the Army shall carry out the 
closure and subsequent related property management and disposal of the 
Depot, including the land, buildings, structures, infrastructure, and 
associated equipment, installed equipment, material, and personal 
property that comprise the Chemical Agent-Destruction Pilot Plant, in 
accordance with the procedures and authorities for the closure, 
management, and disposal of property under the Defense Base Closure and 
Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of Public Law 101-510; 10 
U.S.C. 2687 note).
    (c) Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation Activities.--The 
Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation of the Department of 
Defense may make grants and supplement other Federal funds pursuant to 
section 2391 of title 10, United States Code, to support closure and 
reuse activities of the Depot.
    (d) Treatment of Existing Permits.--Nothing in this section shall 
be construed to prevent the removal or demolition by the Program 
Executive Office, Assembled Chemical Weapons Alternatives of the 
Department of the Army of existing buildings, structures, 
infrastructure, and associated equipment, installed equipment, 
material, and personal property of the Chemical Agent-Destruction Pilot 
Plant at the Depot in accordance with Hazardous Waste Permit Number CO-
20-09-02-01 under the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.) 
(commonly known as the ``Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 
1976'') issued by the State of Colorado, or any associated or follow-on 
permits under such Act.
    (e) Homeless Use.--Given the nature of activities undertaken at the 
Chemical Agent-Destruction Pilot Plant at the Depot, such land, 
buildings, structures, infrastructure, and associated equipment, 
installed equipment, material, and personal property comprising the 
Chemical Agent-Destruction Pilot Plant is deemed unsuitable for 
homeless use and, in carrying out any closure, management, or disposal 
of property under this section, need not be screened for homeless use 
purposes pursuant to section 2905(b)(7) of the Defense Base Closure and 
Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of Public Law 101-510; 10 
U.S.C. 2687 note).

         TITLE XXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PROVISIONS

               Subtitle A--Military Construction Program

SEC. 2801. AUTHORITY FOR INDO-PACIFIC POSTURE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) Authority.--The Commander of the United States Indo-Pacific 
Command (in this section referred to as the ``Commander'') may carry 
out an unspecified military construction project not otherwise 
authorized by law or may authorize the Secretary of a military 
department to carry out such a project.
    (b) Scope of Project Authority.--A project carried out under this 
section may include any planning, designing, construction, development, 
conversion, extension, renovation, or repair, whether to satisfy 
temporary or permanent requirements, and, to the extent necessary, any 
acquisition of land.
    (c) Purposes.--A project carried out under this section shall be 
for the purpose of--
            (1) supporting the rotational deployments of the Armed 
        Forces;
            (2) enhancing facility preparedness and military 
        installation resilience (as defined in section 101(e)(8) of 
        title 10, United States Code) in support of potential, planned, 
        or anticipated national defense activities; or
            (3) providing for prepositioning and storage of equipment 
        and supplies.
    (d) Location of Projects.--A project carried out under this 
section--
            (1) may be located--
                    (A) at a cooperative security location, forward 
                operating site, or contingency location for use by the 
                Armed Forces; or
                    (B) at a location used by the Armed Forces that is 
                owned or operated by Guam, American Samoa, or the 
                Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands; and
            (2) may be carried out without regard to whether the real 
        property or facilities at the location are under the 
        jurisdiction of the Department of Defense if the Commander 
        determines that the United States has a sufficient interest in 
        the property or facility to support the project.
    (e) Maximum Amount.--The cost of any project carried out under this 
section may not exceed $15,000,000.
    (f) Available Amounts.--In carrying out a project under this 
section, the Commander, or the Secretary of a military department when 
authorized by the Commander, may use amounts authorized for--
            (1) the INDOPACOM Military Construction Pilot Program fund; 
        and
            (2) operation and maintenance that are made available to 
        the Commander, not to exceed 200 percent of the amount 
        specified in section 2805(c) of title 10, United States Code.
    (g) Notice to Congress.--
            (1) In general.--If the Commander decides to carry out a 
        project under this section with a cost exceeding $2,000,000, 
        the Commander shall notify the congressional defense committees 
        of that determination in an electronic medium pursuant to 
        section 480 of title 10, United States Code.
            (2) Relevant details.--Notice under paragraph (1) with 
        respect to a project shall include relevant details of the 
        project, including the estimated cost, and may include a 
        classified annex.
            (3) Timing.--A project under this section covered by 
        paragraph (1) may not be carried out until the end of the 14-
        day period beginning on the date the notification under such 
        paragraph is received by the congressional defense committees.
    (h) Annual Report.--Not later than December 31 of each year, the 
Commander shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
containing a list of projects funded, lessons learned, and, subject to 
the concurrence of the President, recommended adjustments to the 
authority under this section for the most recently ended fiscal year.
    (i) Project Execution.--
            (1) Project supervision.--Subsections (a) and (b) of 
        section 2851 of title 10, United States Code, shall not apply 
        to projects carried out under this section.
            (2) Application of chapter 169 of title 10, united states 
        code.--When exercising the authority under subsection (a), the 
        Commander shall, for purposes of chapter 169 of title 10, 
        United States Code, be considered the Secretary concerned.
    (j) Sunset.--The authority to carry out a project under this 
section expires on March 31, 2029.

SEC. 2802. ORDERING AUTHORITY FOR MAINTENANCE, REPAIR, AND CONSTRUCTION 
              OF FACILITIES OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 169 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2817. Ordering authority
    ``(a) In General.--The head of a department or organization within 
the Department of Defense may place an order, on a reimbursable basis, 
with any other such department or organization for a project for the 
maintenance and repair of a facility of the Department of Defense or 
for a minor military construction project.
    ``(b) Obligations.--An order placed by the head of a department or 
organization under subsection (a) is deemed to be an obligation of such 
department or organization in the same manner as a similar order or 
contract placed with a private contractor.
    ``(c) Contingency Expenses.--An order placed under subsection (a) 
for a project may include an amount for contingency expenses that shall 
not exceed 10 percent of the cost of the project.
    ``(d) Availability of Amounts.--Amounts appropriated or otherwise 
made available to a department or organization of the Department of 
Defense shall be available to pay an obligation of such department or 
organization under this section in the same manner and to the same 
extent as those amounts are available to pay an obligation to a private 
contractor.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such subchapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``2817. Ordering authority.''.

SEC. 2803. APPLICATION OF AREA CONSTRUCTION COST INDICES OUTSIDE THE 
              UNITED STATES.

    Section 2805(f) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``inside the United 
        States'';
            (2) by striking paragraph (2); and
            (3) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2).

SEC. 2804. AUTHORIZATION OF COST-PLUS INCENTIVE-FEE CONTRACTING FOR 
              MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS TO MITIGATE RISK TO THE 
              SENTINEL PROGRAM SCHEDULE AND COST.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding section 3323(a) of title 10, 
United States Code, the Secretary of Defense may authorize the use of 
contracts using cost-plus incentive-fee contracting for military 
construction projects associated with launch facilities, launch 
centers, and related infrastructure of the Sentinel Program of the 
Department of Defense for not more than one low-rate initial production 
lot at each of the following locations:
            (1) F.E. Warren Air Force Base.
            (2) Malmstrom Air Force Base.
            (3) Minot Air Force Base.
    (b) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than quarterly 
thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall brief the congressional 
defense committees on the following:
            (1) Uncertainties with site conditions at locations 
        specified under subsection (a).
            (2) The plan of the Department of Defense to transition to 
        firm, fixed price contracts for military construction following 
        any military construction projects carried out under subsection 
        (a).
            (3) The acquisition process for military construction 
        projects carried out under subsection (a).
            (4) Updates on the execution of military construction 
        projects carried out under subsection (a).

SEC. 2805. EXTENSIONS TO THE MILITARY LANDS WITHDRAWAL ACT RELATING TO 
              BARRY M. GOLDWATER RANGE.

    (a) Renewal of Current Withdrawal and Reservation.--Section 
3031(d)(1) of the Military Lands Withdrawal Act of 1999 (Public Law 
106-65; 113 Stat. 907) is amended by striking ``25 years after the date 
of the enactment of this Act'' and inserting ``on October 5, 2049''.
    (b) Extension.--Section 3031(e) of the Military Lands Withdrawal 
Act of 1999 (Public Law 106-65; 113 Stat. 908) is amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Initial''; and
            (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``initial''.

SEC. 2806. AUTHORITY TO LEASE LAND PARCEL FOR HOSPITAL AND MEDICAL 
              CAMPUS, BARRIGADA TRANSMITTER SITE, GUAM.

    (a) No-cost Lease Authorized.--The Secretary of the Navy (in this 
section referred to as the ``Secretary'') may lease to the Government 
of Guam parcels of real property, including any improvements thereon, 
consisting of approximately 102 acres of undeveloped land and 
approximately 10.877 acres of utility easements in the municipality of 
Barrigada and Mangilao, Guam, known as the Barrigada Transmitter Site, 
for construction of a public hospital and medical campus, without fair 
market consideration.
    (b) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the property to be leased under subsection (a) shall be 
determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary.
    (c) Appraisal Not Required.--The lease under subsection (a) shall 
not require an appraisal.
    (d) Conditions of Lease.--
            (1) Subject to certain existing encumbrances.--A lease of 
        property under subsection (a) shall be subject to all existing 
        easements, restrictions, and covenants of record, including 
        restrictive covenants, that the Secretary determines are 
        necessary to ensure that--
                    (A) the use of the property is compatible with 
                continued military activities by the Armed Forces of 
                the United States in Guam;
                    (B) the environmental condition of the property is 
                compatible with the use of the property as a public 
                hospital and medical campus;
                    (C) access is available to the United States to 
                conduct environmental remediation or monitoring as 
                required under section 120(h) of the Comprehensive 
                Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act 
                of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9620(h));
                    (D) the property is used only for a public hospital 
                and medical campus, which may include ancillary 
                facilities to support the hospital and campus, or as 
                set forth in subsection (e); and
                    (E) the public hospital and medical campus to be 
                constructed on the property shall--
                            (i) include--
                                    (I) an MV-22-capable helipad;
                                    (II) recompression chamber 
                                capability; and
                                    (III) perimeter fencing; and
                            (ii) allow for the relocation of weather 
                        radar equipment owned by the United States at 
                        the hospital or campus.
            (2) Funding.--The Secretary is not required to fund the 
        construction or operation of a hospital or medical campus on 
        the property leased under subsection (a).
            (3) Payment of administrative costs.--All direct and 
        indirect administrative costs, including for surveys, title 
        work, document drafting, closing, and labor, incurred by the 
        Secretary related to any lease of the property under subsection 
        (a) shall be borne by the Government of Guam.
    (e) Additional Terms.--The Secretary may require such additional 
terms and conditions in connection with the lease under subsection (a) 
as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the 
United States.
    (f) Not to Be Considered Excess, Transferred, or Disposed of.--The 
property subject to any lease under subsection (a) may not be declared 
to be excess real property to the needs of the Navy or transferred or 
otherwise disposed of by the Navy or any Federal agency.

SEC. 2807. REVISION TO ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT OF AIR FORCE MEMORIAL.

    Section 2863(e) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2002 (division B of Public Law 107-107; 115 Stat. 1332), is 
amended by striking ``the Foundation'' and inserting ``non-Federal 
Government entities, the Secretary of the Air Force, or both''.

SEC. 2808. DEVELOPMENT AND OPERATION OF THE MARINE CORPS HERITAGE 
              CENTER AND THE NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE MARINE CORPS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 861 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 8617 the following new section:
``Sec. 8618. Marine Corps Heritage Center and the National Museum of 
              the Marine Corps
    ``(a) Joint Venture for Development and Continued Maintenance and 
Operation.--The Secretary of the Navy (in this section referred to as 
the `Secretary') may enter into a joint venture with the Marine Corps 
Heritage Foundation (in this section referred to as the `Foundation'), 
a nonprofit entity, for the design, construction, maintenance, and 
operation of a multipurpose facility to be used for historical displays 
for public viewing, curation, and storage of artifacts, research 
facilities, classrooms, offices, and associated activities consistent 
with the mission of the Marine Corps University. The facility shall be 
known as the Marine Corps Heritage Center and the National Museum of 
the Marine Corps (in this section referred to as the `Facility').
    ``(b) Design and Construction.--For each phase of development of 
the Facility, the Secretary may--
            ``(1) permit the Foundation to contract for the design, 
        construction, or both of such phase of development; or
            ``(2) accept funds from the Foundation for the design, 
        construction, or both of such phase of development.
    ``(c) Acceptance Authority.--Upon completion of construction of any 
phase of development of the Facility by the Foundation to the 
satisfaction of the Secretary, and the satisfaction of any financial 
obligations incident thereto by the Foundation, the Facility shall 
become the real property of the Department of the Navy with all right, 
title, and interest in and to the Facility belonging to the United 
States.
    ``(d) Maintenance, Operation, and Support.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary may, for the purpose of 
        maintenance and operation of the Facility--
                    ``(A) enter into contracts or cooperative 
                agreements, on a sole-source basis, with the Foundation 
                for the procurement of property or services for the 
                direct benefit or use of the Facility; and
                    ``(B) notwithstanding the requirements of 
                subsection (h) of section 2667 of this title and under 
                such terms and conditions as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate for the joint venture authorized under 
                subsection (a), lease in accordance with such section 
                2667 portions of the Facility to the Foundation for use 
                in generating revenue for activities of the Facility 
                and for such administrative purposes as may be 
                necessary for support of the Facility.
            ``(2) Consideration for lease.--In making a determination 
        of fair market value under section 2667(b)(4) of this title for 
        payment of consideration pursuant to a lease described in 
        paragraph (1)(B), the Secretary may consider the entirety of 
        the educational efforts of the Foundation, support by the 
        Foundation to the history division of the Marine Corps Heritage 
        Center, funding of museum programs and exhibits by the 
        Foundation, or other support related to the Facility, in 
        addition to the types of in-kind consideration provided under 
        section 2667(c) of this title.
            ``(3) Use for revenue-generating activities.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
                Secretary may authorize the Foundation to use real or 
                personal property within the Facility to conduct 
                revenue-generating activities in addition to those 
                authorized under paragraph (1)(B), as the Secretary 
                considers appropriate considering the work of the 
                Foundation and the needs of the Facility.
                    ``(B) Limitation.--The Secretary may only authorize 
                the use of the Facility for a revenue-generating 
                activity if the Secretary determines the activity will 
                not interfere with activities and personnel of the 
                armed forces or the activities of the Facility.
            ``(4) Retention of lease payments.--The Secretary shall 
        retain lease payments received under paragraph (1)(B), other 
        than in-kind consideration authorized under paragraph (2) or 
        section 2667(c) of this title, solely for use in support of the 
        Facility, and funds received as lease payments shall remain 
        available until expended.
    ``(e) Use of Certain Gifts.--
            ``(1) In general.--Under regulations prescribed by the 
        Secretary, the Commandant of the Marine Corps may, without 
        regard to section 2601 of this title, accept, hold, administer, 
        invest, and spend any gift, devise, or bequest of personal 
        property of a value of $250,000 or less made to the United 
        States if such gift, devise, or bequest is for the benefit of 
        the Facility.
            ``(2) Expenses.--The Secretary may pay or authorize the 
        payment of any reasonable and necessary expense in connection 
        with the conveyance or transfer of a gift, devise, or bequest 
        under paragraph (1).
    ``(f) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require 
such additional terms and conditions in connection with the joint 
venture authorized under subsection (a) as the Secretary considers 
appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 861 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 8617 the following new item:

``8618. Marine Corps Heritage Center and the National Museum of the 
                            Marine Corps.''.
    (c) Conforming Repeal.--Section 2884 of the Floyd D. Spence 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (Public Law 
106-398; 114 Stat. 1654A-440) is repealed.

SEC. 2809. AUTHORITY FOR ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY INTEREST IN PARK 
              LAND OWNED BY THE COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA.

    (a) Authority.--The Secretary of the Navy (in this section referred 
to as the ``Secretary'') may acquire by purchase or lease approximately 
225 square feet of land, including ingress and egress, at Westmoreland 
State Park, Virginia, for the purpose of installing, operating, 
maintaining, and protecting equipment to support research and 
development activities by the Department of the Navy in support of 
national security.
    (b) Terms and Conditions.--The acquisition of property under 
subsection (a) shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
            (1) The Secretary shall pay the Commonwealth of Virginia 
        fair market value for the property to be acquired, as 
        determined by the Secretary.
            (2) Such other terms and conditions as considered 
        appropriate by the Secretary.
    (c) Description of Property.--The legal description of the property 
to be acquired under subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey 
that is satisfactory to the Secretary and the Commonwealth of Virginia.
    (d) Applicability of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act.--The 
provisions of chapter 2003 of title 54, United States Code, shall not 
apply to the acquisition of property under subsection (a).
    (e) Reimbursement.--The Secretary shall reimburse the Commonwealth 
of Virginia for the reasonable and documented administrative costs 
incurred by the Commonwealth of Virginia to execute the acquisition by 
the Secretary of property under subsection (a).
    (f) Termination of Real Property Interest.--The real property 
interest acquired by the Secretary under subsection (a) shall 
terminate, and be released without cost to the Commonwealth of 
Virginia, when the Secretary determines such real property interest is 
no longer required for national security purposes.

SEC. 2810. MOVEMENT OR CONSOLIDATION OF JOINT SPECTRUM CENTER TO FORT 
              MEADE, MARYLAND, OR ANOTHER APPROPRIATE LOCATION.

    (a) Leaving Current Location.--Not later than September 30, 2026, 
the Secretary of Defense shall completely vacate the offices of the 
Joint Spectrum Center of the Department of Defense in Annapolis, 
Maryland.
    (b) Movement or Consolidation.--The Secretary shall take 
appropriate action to move, consolidate, or both, the offices of the 
Joint Spectrum Center to the headquarters building of the Defense 
Information Systems Agency at Fort Meade, Maryland, or another 
appropriate location chosen by the Secretary for national security 
purposes to ensure the physical and cybersecurity protection of 
personnel and missions of the Department of Defense.
    (c) Status Update.--Not later than January 31 and July 31 of each 
year until the Secretary has completed the requirements under 
subsections (a) and (b), the Commander of the Defense Information 
Systems Agency shall provide an in-person and written update on the 
status of the completion of those requirements to the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives and the 
congressional delegation of Maryland.
    (d) Termination of Existing Lease.--Upon vacating the offices of 
the Joint Spectrum Center in Annapolis, Maryland, pursuant to 
subsection (a), all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the existing lease for the Joint Spectrum Center in such 
location shall be terminated.
    (e) Repeal of Obsolete Authority.--Section 2887 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (division B of 
Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 569) is repealed.

SEC. 2811. TEMPORARY EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY FOR USE OF ONE-STEP TURN-
              KEY SELECTION PROCEDURES FOR REPAIR PROJECTS.

    During the five-year period beginning on the date of the enactment 
of this Act, section 2862(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, shall 
be applied and administered by substituting ``$12,000,000'' for 
``$4,000,000''.

SEC. 2812. MODIFICATION OF TEMPORARY INCREASE OF AMOUNTS IN CONNECTION 
              WITH AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT UNSPECIFIED MINOR MILITARY 
              CONSTRUCTION.

    (a) In General.--Section 2801 of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (division B of Public Law 117-
263) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (4) as 
        paragraphs (3) through (5), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
        paragraph (2):
            ``(2) in subsection (b)(2), by substituting `$4,000,000' 
        for `$2,000,000';''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
apply as if included in the enactment of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (division B of Public Law 117-
263).

SEC. 2813. PILOT PROGRAM ON REPLACEMENT OF SUBSTANDARD ENLISTED 
              BARRACKS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary concerned may, in accordance with 
this section, carry out a pilot program under which the Secretary 
concerned may replace an existing enlisted barracks with a new enlisted 
barracks not otherwise authorized by law.
    (b) Facility Requirements.--A new facility for an enlisted barracks 
replaced under subsection (a)--
            (1) may not have a greater personnel capacity than the 
        facility being replaced but may be physically larger than the 
        facility being replaced;
            (2) must be replacing a facility that is in a substandard 
        condition, as determined by the Secretary concerned, and which 
        determination may not be delegated, in advance of project 
        approval;
            (3) must be designed and utilized for the same purpose as 
        the facility being replaced;
            (4) must be located on the same installation as the 
        facility being replaced; and
            (5) must be designed to meet, at a minimum, current 
        standards for construction, utilization, and force protection.
    (c) Source of Funds.--The Secretary concerned, in using the 
authority under this section, may spend amounts available to the 
Secretary concerned for operation and maintenance or unspecified 
military construction.
    (d) Congressional Notification.--When a decision is made to carry 
out a replacement project under this section with an estimated cost in 
excess of $10,000,000, the Secretary concerned shall submit, in an 
electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of title 10, United States 
Code, to the appropriate committees of Congress a report containing--
            (1) the justification for the replacement project and the 
        current estimate of the cost of the project; and
            (2) a description of the elements of military construction, 
        including the elements specified in section 2802(b) of such 
        title, incorporated into the project.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress; facility; secretary 
        concerned.--The terms ``appropriate committees of Congress'', 
        ``facility'', and ``Secretary concerned'' have the meanings 
        given those terms in section 2801 of title 10, United States 
        Code.
            (2) Enlisted barracks.--The term ``enlisted barracks'' 
        means barracks designed and utilized for housing enlisted 
        personnel of the Armed Forces.
            (3) Personnel capacity.--The term ``personnel capacity'', 
        with respect to an enlisted barracks, means the design capacity 
        for the number of enlisted personnel housed in the enlisted 
        barracks.
            (4) Substandard condition.--The term ``substandard 
        condition'', with respect to a facility, means the facility can 
        no longer meet the requirements of current standards without 
        repair that would cost more than 75 percent of the replacement 
        cost.
    (f) Sunset.--The authority under this section shall terminate on 
the date that is five years after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 2814. EXPANSION OF DEFENSE COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE PILOT PROGRAM 
              TO INCLUDE INSTALLATIONS OF THE COAST GUARD.

    Section 2391 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)(B), in the matter preceding 
                clause (i), by inserting ``, in consultation with the 
                Commandant of the Coast Guard,'' after ``The 
                Secretary''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(5) In considering grants, agreements, or other funding 
        under paragraph (1)(A) with respect to community infrastructure 
        supportive of a military installation of the Coast Guard, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall consult with the Commandant of the 
        Coast Guard to assess the selection and prioritization of the 
        project concerned.''; and
            (2) in subsection (e)(1), by adding at the end the 
        following new sentence: ``For purposes of subsection (d), the 
        term `military installation' includes an installation of the 
        Coast Guard under the jurisdiction of the Department of 
        Homeland Security.''.

SEC. 2815. MODIFICATION OF PILOT PROGRAM ON INCREASED USE OF 
              SUSTAINABLE BUILDING MATERIALS IN MILITARY CONSTRUCTION.

    Section 2861 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2022 (Public Law 117-81; 10 U.S.C. 2802 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(1), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``to include, under the pilot program as a whole, 
        at a minimum--
                    ``(A) one project for mass timber; and
                    ``(B) one project for low carbon concrete.'';
            (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``September 30, 2024'' 
        and inserting ``September 30, 2025'';
            (3) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections 
        (f) and (g), respectively;
            (4) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
        subsection (e):
    ``(e) Commencement of Construction.--Each military construction 
project carried out under the pilot program must commence construction 
by not later than January 1, 2025.''; and
            (5) in subsection (f)(1), as redesignated by paragraph (3), 
        by striking ``December 31, 2024'' and inserting ``December 31, 
        2025''.

                      Subtitle B--Military Housing

                 PART I--MILITARY UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING

SEC. 2821. UNIFORM CONDITION INDEX FOR MILITARY UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall prescribe 
regulations requiring the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Energy, 
Installations, and Environment to complete and issue a uniform facility 
condition index for military unaccompanied housing, including such 
housing that is existing as of the date of the enactment of this Act 
and any such housing constructed or used on or after such date of 
enactment.
    (b) Completion of Index.--The uniform facility condition index 
required under subsection (a) shall be completed and issued by not 
later than October 1, 2024.
    (c) Military Unaccompanied Housing Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``military unaccompanied housing'' means the following housing 
owned by the United States Government:
            (1) Military housing intended to be occupied by members of 
        the Armed Forces serving a tour of duty unaccompanied by 
        dependents.
            (2) Transient housing intended to be occupied by members of 
        the Armed Forces on temporary duty.

SEC. 2822. CERTIFICATION OF HABITABILITY OF MILITARY UNACCOMPANIED 
              HOUSING.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall include with the 
submission to Congress by the President of the annual budget of the 
Department of Defense under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States 
Code, a certification from the Secretary of each military department to 
the congressional defense committees that the cost for all needed 
repairs and improvements for each occupied military unaccompanied 
housing facility under the jurisdiction of such Secretary does not 
exceed 20 percent of the replacement cost of such facility, as mandated 
by Department of Defense Manual 4165.63, ``DoD Housing Management'', or 
successor issuance.
    (b) Military Unaccompanied Housing Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``military unaccompanied housing'' means the following housing 
owned by the United States Government:
            (1) Military housing intended to be occupied by members of 
        the Armed Forces serving a tour of duty unaccompanied by 
        dependents.
            (2) Transient housing intended to be occupied by members of 
        the Armed Forces on temporary duty.

SEC. 2823. MAINTENANCE WORK ORDER MANAGEMENT PROCESS FOR MILITARY 
              UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall prescribe 
regulations to establish for each military department a process 
associated with maintenance work order management for military 
unaccompanied housing under the jurisdiction of such military 
department, including such housing that is existing as of the date of 
the enactment of this Act and any such housing constructed or used on 
or after such date of enactment.
    (b) Use of Process.--The processes required under subsection (a) 
shall clearly define requirements for effective and timely maintenance 
work order management, including requirements with respect to--
            (1) quality assurance for maintenance completed;
            (2) communication of maintenance progress and resolution 
        with management of military unaccompanied housing, barracks 
        managers, and residents; and
            (3) standardized performance metrics, such as the 
        timeliness of completion of work orders.
    (c) Administration.--The Secretary of each military department 
shall administer the work order process required under subsection (a) 
for such military department and shall issue or update relevant 
guidance as necessary.
    (d) Military Unaccompanied Housing Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``military unaccompanied housing'' means the following housing 
owned by the United States Government:
            (1) Military housing intended to be occupied by members of 
        the Armed Forces serving a tour of duty unaccompanied by 
        dependents.
            (2) Transient housing intended to be occupied by members of 
        the Armed Forces on temporary duty.

SEC. 2824. EXPANSION OF UNIFORM CODE OF BASIC STANDARDS FOR MILITARY 
              HOUSING TO INCLUDE MILITARY UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING.

    (a) In General.--Section 2818 of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 
116-283; 10 U.S.C. 2871 note) is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``family''; and
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``family''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``, including military 
                unaccompanied housing (as defined in section 2871 of 
                title 10, United States Code)'' before the period at 
                the end.
    (b) Implementation.--
            (1) In general.--In implementing the amendments made by 
        subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the 
        standards required under section 2818 of the William M. (Mac) 
        Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
        2021 (Public Law 116-283; 10 U.S.C. 2871 note), as modified 
        pursuant to those amendments, apply to military unaccompanied 
        housing that is existing as of the date of the enactment of 
        this Act and any such housing constructed or used on or after 
        such date of enactment.
            (2) Military unaccompanied housing defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``military unaccompanied housing'' means 
        the following housing owned by the United States Government:
                    (A) Military housing intended to be occupied by 
                members of the Armed Forces serving a tour of duty 
                unaccompanied by dependents.
                    (B) Transient housing intended to be occupied by 
                members of the Armed Forces on temporary duty.

SEC. 2825. OVERSIGHT OF MILITARY UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING.

    (a) Civilian Oversight.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        prescribe regulations to require that the Secretary of each 
        military department establish a civilian employee of the 
        Department of Defense, or of the military department concerned, 
        at the housing office for each installation of the Department 
        under the jurisdiction of such Secretary to oversee military 
        unaccompanied housing at that installation.
            (2) Supervisory chain.--For any installation of the 
        Department for which the unaccompanied housing manager is a 
        member of the Armed Forces, the civilian employee established 
        under paragraph (1) at such installation shall report to a 
        civilian employee at the housing office for such installation.
    (b) Barracks or Dormitory Manager Requirements.--
            (1) Limitation on role by members of the armed forces.--No 
        enlisted member of the Armed Forces or commissioned officer may 
        be designated as a barracks manager or supervisor in charge of 
        overseeing, managing, accepting, or compiling maintenance 
        records for any military unaccompanied housing as a collateral 
        duty.
            (2) Position designation.--The function of a barracks 
        manager or supervisor described in paragraph (1) for an 
        installation of the Department shall be completed by a civilian 
        employee or contractor of the Department who shall report to 
        the government housing office of the installation.
    (c) Military Unaccompanied Housing Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``military unaccompanied housing'' means the following housing 
owned by the United States Government:
            (1) Military housing intended to be occupied by members of 
        the Armed Forces serving a tour of duty unaccompanied by 
        dependents.
            (2) Transient housing intended to be occupied by members of 
        the Armed Forces on temporary duty.

SEC. 2826. ELIMINATION OF FLEXIBILITIES FOR ADEQUACY OR CONSTRUCTION 
              STANDARDS FOR MILITARY UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall modify all 
directives, instructions, manuals, regulations, policies, and other 
guidance and issuances of the Department of Defense to eliminate the 
grant of any flexibilities to--
            (1) minimum adequacy standards for configuration, privacy, 
        condition, health, and safety for existing permanent party 
        military unaccompanied housing to be considered suitable for 
        assignment or occupancy; and
            (2) standards for the construction of new military 
        unaccompanied housing.
    (b) Matters Included.--The requirement under subsection (a) shall 
include modifications that remove the flexibility provided to the 
military departments with respect to standards for adequacy for 
assignment and new construction standards for military unaccompanied 
housing, including modification of the Housing Management Manual of the 
Department of Defense and Department of Defense Manual 4165.63, ``DoD 
Housing Management''.
    (c) Military Unaccompanied Housing Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``military unaccompanied housing'' means the following housing 
owned by the United States Government:
            (1) Military housing intended to be occupied by members of 
        the Armed Forces serving a tour of duty unaccompanied by 
        dependents.
            (2) Transient housing intended to be occupied by members of 
        the Armed Forces on temporary duty.

SEC. 2827. DESIGN STANDARDS FOR MILITARY UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING.

    (a) Uniform Standards for Floor Space, Number of Members Allowed, 
and Habitability.--
            (1) In general.--Section 2856 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) in the section heading, by striking ``local 
                comparability of floor areas'' and inserting 
                ``standards'';
                    (B) by striking ``In'' and inserting ``(a) Local 
                Comparability in Floor Areas.--In'';
                    (C) in subsection (a), as designated by 
                subparagraph (B), by inserting ``, except for purposes 
                of meeting minimum area requirements under subsection 
                (b)(1)(A),'' after ``exceed''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following new 
                subsection:
    ``(b) Floor Space, Number of Members Allowed, and Habitability.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the design, assignment, and use of 
        military unaccompanied housing, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        establish uniform standards that--
                    ``(A) provide a minimum area of floor space, not 
                including bathrooms or closets, per individual 
                occupying a unit of military unaccompanied housing;
                    ``(B) ensure that not more than two individuals may 
                occupy such a unit; and
                    ``(C) provide definitions and measures for 
                habitability, specifying criteria of design and 
                materiel quality to be applied and levels of 
                maintenance to be required.
            ``(2) Waiver.--Standards established under paragraph (1) 
        may be waived for specific units of military unaccompanied 
        housing by the Secretary concerned (who may not delegate such 
        waiver) for a period not longer than one year and may not be 
        renewed.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of subchapter III of chapter 169 of title 10, United 
        States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to 
        section 2856 and inserting the following new item:

``2856. Military unaccompanied housing: standards.''.
    (b) Completion and Issuance of Uniform Standards.--Not later than 
180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Defense shall--
            (1)(A) ensure that the uniform standards required under 
        section 2856(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code, as added by 
        subsection (a)(1)(D), are completed and issued; and
            (B) submit to the congressional defense committees a copy 
        of those standards; or
            (2) submit to the congressional defense committees a 
        report, under the Secretary's signature--
                    (A) explaining in detail why those standards are 
                not completed and issued;
                    (B) indicating when those standards are expected to 
                be completed and issued; and
                    (C) specifying the names of the personnel 
                responsible for the failure of the Department of 
                Defense to comply with paragraph (1).
    (c) Compliance With Uniform Standards.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than two years after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of each military 
        department shall ensure that all military unaccompanied 
        housing, including privatized military housing under subchapter 
        IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, located on 
        an installation under the jurisdiction of such Secretary 
        complies with the uniform standards established under section 
        2856(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code, as added by 
        subsection (a)(1)(D).
            (2) No waiver.--The requirement under paragraph (1) may not 
        be waived.
            (3) Military unaccompanied housing defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``military unaccompanied housing'' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 2871 of title 10, United 
        States Code.
    (d) Certification of Budget Requirements.--The Under Secretary of 
Defense (Comptroller) shall include with the submission to Congress by 
the President of the annual budget of the Department of Defense for 
each of fiscal years 2025 through 2029 under section 1105(a) of title 
31, United States Code, a signed certification that the Department of 
Defense and each of the military departments has requested sufficient 
funds to comply with this section and the amendments made by this 
section.

SEC. 2828. TERMINATION OF HABITABILITY STANDARD WAIVERS AND ASSESSMENT 
              AND PLAN WITH RESPECT TO MILITARY UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING.

    (a) Termination of Habitability Standard Waivers.--On and after 
February 1, 2025, any waiver by the Department of Defense of 
habitability standards for military unaccompanied housing in effect as 
of such date shall terminate.
    (b) Assessment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
the Secretary of each military department, shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees an assessment on the following:
            (1) The number of waivers currently in place for any 
        standards for military unaccompanied housing as it relates to 
        occupancy and habitability, disaggregated by Armed Force, 
        location, and facility.
            (2) A list of each such waiver, disaggregated by Armed 
        Force, with a notation of which official appointed by the 
        President and confirmed by the Senate approved the waiver.
            (3) The number of members of the Armed Forces impacted by 
        each such waiver, disaggregated by location.
    (c) Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
        coordination with the Secretary of each military department, 
        shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
        and the House of Representatives and the Comptroller General of 
        the United States a plan on addressing the deficiencies of 
        military unaccompanied housing, including barracks and 
        dormitories, that led to the use of waivers described in 
        subsection (b)(1).
            (2) Elements.--The plan required under paragraph (1) shall 
        include--
                    (A) a timeline for repairs, renovations, or minor 
                or major military construction;
                    (B) the cost of any such repair, renovation, or 
                construction; and
                    (C) an installation-by-installation get-well plan.
            (3) Implementation.--Not later than 60 days after receiving 
        the plan required under paragraph (1), the Comptroller General 
        shall brief the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
        the House of Representatives on--
                    (A) the ability of the Department of Defense to 
                execute the plan; and
                    (B) any recommendations of the Comptroller General 
                for modifying the plan.
    (d) Military Unaccompanied Housing Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``military unaccompanied housing'' means the following housing 
owned by the United States Government:
            (1) Military housing intended to be occupied by members of 
        the Armed Forces serving a tour of duty unaccompanied by 
        dependents.
            (2) Transient housing intended to be occupied by members of 
        the Armed Forces on temporary duty.

SEC. 2829. REQUIREMENT FOR SECURITY CAMERAS IN COMMON AREAS AND ENTRY 
              POINTS OF MILITARY UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING.

    (a) New Housing.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that all 
renovations of military unaccompanied housing authorized on or after 
the date of the enactment of this Act that exceed 20 percent of the 
replacement cost of such facility and all construction of new military 
unaccompanied housing authorized on or after such date are designed and 
executed with security cameras in all common areas and entry points as 
part of a closed circuit television system.
    (b) Retrofitting.--Not later than three years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall ensure that all military 
unaccompanied housing facilities are retrofitted with security cameras 
in all common areas and entry points as part of a closed circuit 
television system.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Common area.--The term ``common area'' has the meaning 
        given that term by the Secretary of Defense and shall balance 
        the need to increase security in appropriate areas with the 
        privacy expectations of members of the Armed Forces in military 
        unaccompanied housing.
            (2) Military unaccompanied housing.--The term ``military 
        unaccompanied housing'' means the following housing owned by 
        the United States Government:
                    (A) Military housing intended to be occupied by 
                members of the Armed Forces serving a tour of duty 
                unaccompanied by dependents.
                    (B) Transient housing intended to be occupied by 
                members of the Armed Forces on temporary duty.

SEC. 2830. ANNUAL REPORT ON MILITARY UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING.

    (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for the following four 
years, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on 
military unaccompanied housing, excluding privatized military housing 
under subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code.
    (b) Elements.--Each report required under subsection (a) shall 
contain a section provided by each Secretary of a military department 
that--
            (1) is certified by the Secretary concerned;
            (2) includes a list of all military unaccompanied housing 
        facilities located on each installation under the jurisdiction 
        of the Secretary concerned;
            (3) identifies the replacement cost for each such facility;
            (4) identifies the percentage of repair costs as it 
        compares to the total replacement cost for each such facility; 
        and
            (5) specifies the funding required to conduct all needed 
        repairs and improvements at each such facility.
    (c) Military Unaccompanied Housing Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``military unaccompanied housing'' has the meaning given that term 
in section 2871 of title 10, United States Code.

                  PART II--PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING

SEC. 2841. IMPROVEMENTS TO PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.

    (a) Limitation on Housing Enhancement Payments.--Section 606(a)(2) 
of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232;10 U.S.C. 2871 note) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)--
                    (A) by striking ``Each month'' and inserting 
                ``Except as provided in subparagraph (D), each month''; 
                and
                    (B) by striking ``one of more'' and inserting ``one 
                or more''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(D) Limitation on payment.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Subject to clause (ii), 
                        the Secretary of a military department may not 
                        make a payment under subparagraph (A) to a 
                        lessor unless the Assistant Secretary of 
                        Defense for Energy, Installations, and 
                        Environment determines the lessor is in 
                        compliance with the Military Housing 
                        Privatization Initiative Tenant Bill of Rights 
                        developed under section 2890 of title 10, 
                        United States Code.
                            ``(ii) Application.--The limitation under 
                        clause (i) shall apply to any payment under a 
                        housing agreement entered into on or after the 
                        date of the enactment of the National Defense 
                        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 by the 
                        Secretary of a military department with a 
                        lessor.''.
    (b) Inclusion of Information on Compliance With Tenant Bill of 
Rights in Notice of Lease Extension.--Section 2878(f)(2) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subparagraph:
            ``(E) An assessment of compliance by the lessor with the 
        Military Housing Privatization Initiative Tenant Bill of Rights 
        developed under section 2890 of this title.''.
    (c) Modification of Authority To Investigate Reprisals.--Subsection 
(e) of section 2890 of such title is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``Assistant Secretary of Defense 
                for Sustainment'' and inserting ``Inspector General of 
                the Department of Defense''; and
                    (B) by striking ``member of the armed forces'' and 
                inserting ``tenant'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) by striking ``Assistant Secretary of 
                        Defense for Sustainment'' and inserting 
                        ``Inspector General'';
                            (ii) by striking ``member of the armed 
                        forces'' and inserting ``tenant''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``Assistant Secretary'' 
                        and inserting ``Inspector General''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``Assistant 
                Secretary'' and inserting ``Inspector General''; and
            (3) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) by striking ``Assistant Secretary of Defense 
                for Sustainment'' and inserting ``Inspector General of 
                the Department of Defense''; and
                    (B) by striking ``Secretary of the military 
                department concerned'' and inserting ``Inspector 
                General of the military department concerned''.

SEC. 2842. IMPLEMENTATION OF COMPTROLLER GENERAL RECOMMENDATIONS 
              RELATING TO STRENGTHENING OVERSIGHT OF PRIVATIZED 
              MILITARY HOUSING.

    Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall--
            (1) implement the recommendations of the Comptroller 
        General of the United States contained in the report published 
        by the Comptroller General on April 6, 2023, reissued with 
        revisions on April 20, 2023, and titled ``DOD Can Further 
        Strengthen Oversight of Its Privatized Housing Program'' (GAO-
        23-105377); or
            (2) if the Secretary does not implement any such 
        recommendation, submit to the Committees on Armed Services of 
        the Senate and the House of Representatives a report explaining 
        why the Secretary has not implemented those recommendations.

SEC. 2843. TREATMENT OF NONDISCLOSURE AGREEMENTS WITH RESPECT TO 
              PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.

    Section 2890(f)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``A tenant or prospective tenant of a 
        housing unit may not be required to sign'' and inserting ``A 
        landlord may not request that a tenant or prospective tenant of 
        a housing unit sign''; and
            (2) by inserting at the end the following: ``The military 
        services should seek to inform members of the armed forces of 
        the possible consequences of entering into a nondisclosure 
        agreement and encourage members to seek legal counsel before 
        entering into such an agreement if they have questions about 
        specific contractual terms.''.

                    PART III--OTHER HOUSING MATTERS

SEC. 2851. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE MILITARY HOUSING READINESS COUNCIL.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 88 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 1781c the following 
new section:
``Sec. 1781d. Department of Defense Military Housing Readiness Council
    ``(a) In General.--There is in the Department of Defense the 
Department of Defense Military Housing Readiness Council (in this 
section referred to as the `Council').
    ``(b) Members.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Council shall be composed of the 
        following members:
                    ``(A) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
                Energy, Installations, and Environment, who shall serve 
                as chair of the Council and who may designate a 
                representative to chair the Council in the absence of 
                the Assistant Secretary.
                    ``(B) One representative of each of the Army, Navy, 
                Air Force, Marine Corps, and Space Force, each of whom 
                shall be a member of the armed force to be represented 
                and not fewer than two of which shall be from an 
                enlisted component.
                    ``(C) One spouse of a member of each of the Army, 
                Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Space Force on 
                active duty, not fewer than two of which shall be the 
                spouse of an enlisted member.
                    ``(D) One professional from each of the following 
                fields, each of whom shall possess expertise in State 
                and Federal housing standards in their respective 
                field:
                            ``(i) Plumbing.
                            ``(ii) Electrical.
                            ``(iii) Heating, ventilation, and air 
                        conditioning (HVAC).
                            ``(iv) Certified home inspection.
                            ``(v) Roofing.
                            ``(vi) Structural engineering.
                            ``(vii) Window fall prevention and safety.
                    ``(E) Two representatives of organizations that 
                advocate on behalf of military families with respect to 
                military housing.
                    ``(F) One individual appointed by the Secretary of 
                Defense among representatives of the International Code 
                Council.
                    ``(G) One individual appointed by the Secretary of 
                Defense among representatives of the Institute of 
                Inspection Cleaning and Restoration Certification.
                    ``(H) One individual appointed by the Secretary of 
                Defense among representatives of a voluntary consensus 
                standards body that develops construction standards 
                (such as building, plumbing, mechanical, or 
                electrical).
                    ``(I) One individual appointed by the Secretary of 
                Defense among representatives of a voluntary consensus 
                standards body that develops personnel certification 
                standards for building maintenance or restoration.
            ``(2) Terms.--The term on the Council of the members 
        specified under subparagraphs (B) through (M) of paragraph (1) 
        shall be two years and may be renewed by the Secretary of 
        Defense.
            ``(3) Attendance by landlords.--The chair of the Council 
        shall extend an invitation to each landlord for one 
        representative of each landlord to attend such meetings of the 
        Council as the chair considers appropriate.
            ``(4) Additional requirements for certain members.--Each 
        member appointed under paragraph (1)(D) may not be affiliated 
        with--
                    ``(A) any organization that provides privatized 
                military housing; or
                    ``(B) the Department of Defense.
    ``(c) Meetings.--The Council shall meet two times each year.
    ``(d) Duties.--The duties of the Council shall include the 
following:
            ``(1) To review and make recommendations to the Secretary 
        of Defense regarding policies for privatized military housing, 
        including inspections practices, resident surveys, landlord 
        payment of medical bills for residents of housing units that 
        have not maintained minimum standards of habitability, and 
        access to maintenance work order systems.
            ``(2) To monitor compliance by the Department of Defense 
        with and effective implementation by the Department of 
        statutory and regulatory improvements to policies for 
        privatized military housing, including the Military Housing 
        Privatization Initiative Tenant Bill of Rights developed under 
        section 2890 of this title and the complaint database 
        established under section 2894a of this title.
            ``(3) To make recommendations to the Secretary of Defense 
        to improve collaboration, awareness, and promotion of accurate 
        and timely information about privatized military housing, 
        accommodations available through the Exceptional Family Member 
        Program of the Department, and other support services among 
        policymakers, providers of such accommodations and other 
        support services, and targeted beneficiaries of such 
        accommodations and other support services.
    ``(e) Public Reporting.--
            ``(1) Availability of documents.--Subject to section 552 of 
        title 5 (commonly known as the `Freedom of Information Act'), 
        the records, reports, transcripts, minutes, appendices, working 
        papers, drafts, studies, agenda, and other documents made 
        available to or prepared for or by the Council shall be 
        available for public inspection and copying at a single 
        location in a publicly accessible format on a website of the 
        Department of Defense until the Council ceases to exist.
            ``(2) Minutes.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Detailed minutes of each meeting 
                of the Council shall be kept and shall contain--
                            ``(i) a record of the individuals present;
                            ``(ii) a complete and accurate description 
                        of matters discussed and conclusions reached; 
                        and
                            ``(iii) copies of all reports received, 
                        issued, or approved by the Council.
                    ``(B) Certification.--The chair of the Council 
                shall certify the accuracy of the minutes of each 
                meeting of the Council.
    ``(f) Annual Reports.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than March 1 each year, the 
        Council shall submit to the Secretary of Defense and the 
        congressional defense committees a report on privatized 
        military housing readiness.
            ``(2) Elements.--Each report under this subsection shall 
        include the following:
                    ``(A) An assessment of the adequacy and 
                effectiveness of the provision of privatized military 
                housing and the activities of the Department of Defense 
                in meeting the needs of military families relating to 
                housing during the preceding fiscal year.
                    ``(B) A description of activities of the Council 
                during the preceding fiscal year, including--
                            ``(i) analyses of complaints of tenants of 
                        housing units;
                            ``(ii) data received by the Council on 
                        maintenance response time and completion of 
                        maintenance requests relating to housing units;
                            ``(iii) assessments of dispute resolution 
                        processes;
                            ``(iv) assessments of overall customer 
                        service for tenants;
                            ``(v) assessments of results of housing 
                        inspections conducted with and without notice; 
                        and
                            ``(vi) any survey results conducted on 
                        behalf of or received by the Council.
                    ``(C) Recommendations on actions to be taken to 
                improve the capability of the provision of privatized 
                military housing and the activities of the Department 
                of Defense to meet the needs and requirements of 
                military families relating to housing, including 
                actions relating to the allocation of funding and other 
                resources.
            ``(3) Public availability.--Each report under this 
        subsection shall be made available in a publicly accessible 
        format on a website of the Department of Defense.
    ``(g) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Landlord.--The term `landlord' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 2871 of this title.
            ``(2) Privatized military housing.--The term `privatized 
        military housing' means housing provided under subchapter IV of 
        chapter 169 of this title.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such subchapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 1781c the following new item:

``1781d. Department of Defense Military Housing Readiness Council.''.

SEC. 2852. INCLUSION IN ANNUAL STATUS OF FORCES SURVEY OF QUESTIONS 
              REGARDING LIVING CONDITIONS OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
              FORCES.

    The Secretary of Defense shall include in each status of forces 
survey of the Department of Defense conducted on or after the date of 
the enactment of this Act questions specifically targeting the 
following areas:
            (1) Overall satisfaction of members of the Armed Forces 
        with their current living accommodation.
            (2) Satisfaction of such members with the physical 
        condition of their current living accommodation.
            (3) Satisfaction of such members with the affordability of 
        their current living accommodation.
            (4) Whether the current living accommodation of such 
        members has impacted any decision related to reenlistment in 
        the Armed Forces.

                      Subtitle C--Land Conveyances

SEC. 2861. LAND CONVEYANCE, BG J SUMNER JONES ARMY RESERVE CENTER, 
              WHEELING, WEST VIRGINIA.

    (a) Conveyance Authorized.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Army (in this section 
        referred to as the ``Secretary'') may convey to the City of 
        Wheeling, West Virginia (in this section referred to as the 
        ``City''), all right, title, and interest of the United States 
        in and to a parcel of real property, including any improvements 
        thereon, consisting of approximately 3.33 acres, known as the 
        former BG J Sumner Jones Army Reserve Center, located within 
        the City, for the purpose of providing emergency management 
        response or law enforcement services.
            (2) Continuation of existing easements, restrictions, and 
        covenants.--The conveyance of the property under paragraph (1) 
        shall be subject to any easement, restriction, or covenant of 
        record applicable to the property and in existence on the date 
        of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Revisionary Interest.--
            (1) In general.--If the Secretary determines at any time 
        that the property conveyed under subsection (a) is not being 
        used in accordance with the purpose of the conveyance specified 
        in such subsection, all right, title, and interest in and to 
        the property, including any improvements thereto, may, at the 
        option of the Secretary, revert to and become the property of 
        the United States, and the United States may have the right of 
        immediate entry onto such property.
            (2) Determination.--A determination by the Secretary under 
        paragraph (1) may be made on the record after an opportunity 
        for a hearing.
    (c) Payment of Costs of Conveyance.--
            (1) Payment required.--The Secretary may require the City 
        to cover all costs (except costs for environmental remediation 
        of the property) to be incurred by the Secretary, or to 
        reimburse the Secretary for costs incurred by the Secretary, to 
        carry out the conveyance under subsection (a), including costs 
        for environmental and real estate due diligence and any other 
        administrative costs related to the conveyance.
            (2) Refund of excess amounts.--If amounts are collected 
        from the City under paragraph (1) in advance of the Secretary 
        incurring the actual costs, and the amount collected exceeds 
        the costs actually incurred by the Secretary to carry out the 
        conveyance under subsection (a), the Secretary shall refund the 
        excess amount to the City.
    (d) Limitation on Source of Funds.--The City may not use Federal 
funds to cover any portion of the costs required to be paid by the City 
under this section.
    (e) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the property to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall 
be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary.
    (f) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require 
such additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance 
under subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect 
the interests of the United States.

SEC. 2862. LAND CONVEYANCE, WETZEL COUNTY MEMORIAL ARMY RESERVE CENTER, 
              NEW MARTINSVILLE, WEST VIRGINIA.

    (a) Conveyance Authorized.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Army (in this section 
        referred to as the ``Secretary'') may convey to the City of New 
        Martinsville, West Virginia (in this section referred to as the 
        ``City''), all right, title, and interest of the United States 
        in and to a parcel of real property, including any improvements 
        thereon, consisting of approximately 2.96 acres, known as the 
        former Wetzel County Memorial Army Reserve Center, located 
        within the City, for the purpose of providing emergency 
        management response or law enforcement services.
            (2) Continuation of existing easements, restrictions, and 
        covenants.--The conveyance of the property under paragraph (1) 
        shall be subject to any easement, restriction, or covenant of 
        record applicable to the property and in existence on the date 
        of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Revisionary Interest.--
            (1) In general.--If the Secretary determines at any time 
        that the property conveyed under subsection (a) is not being 
        used in accordance with the purpose of the conveyance specified 
        in such subsection, all right, title, and interest in and to 
        the property, including any improvements thereto, may, at the 
        option of the Secretary, revert to and become the property of 
        the United States, and the United States may have the right of 
        immediate entry onto such property.
            (2) Determination.--A determination by the Secretary under 
        paragraph (1) may be made on the record after an opportunity 
        for a hearing.
    (c) Payment of Costs of Conveyance.--
            (1) Payment required.--The Secretary may require the City 
        to cover all costs (except costs for environmental remediation 
        of the property) to be incurred by the Secretary, or to 
        reimburse the Secretary for costs incurred by the Secretary, to 
        carry out the conveyance under subsection (a), including costs 
        for environmental and real estate due diligence and any other 
        administrative costs related to the conveyance.
            (2) Refund of excess amounts.--If amounts are collected 
        from the City under paragraph (1) in advance of the Secretary 
        incurring the actual costs, and the amount collected exceeds 
        the costs actually incurred by the Secretary to carry out the 
        conveyance under subsection (a), the Secretary shall refund the 
        excess amount to the City.
    (d) Limitation on Source of Funds.--The City may not use Federal 
funds to cover any portion of the costs required to be paid by the City 
under this section.
    (e) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the property to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall 
be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary.
    (f) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require 
such additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance 
under subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect 
the interests of the United States.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

SEC. 2871. AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT ENERGY RESILIENCE AND CONSERVATION 
              PROJECTS AT INSTALLATIONS WHERE NON-DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              FUNDED ENERGY PROJECTS HAVE OCCURRED.

    Subsection (k) of section 2688 of title 10, United States Codes, is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(k) Improvement of Conveyed Utility System.--(1) In the case of a 
utility system that has been conveyed under this section and that only 
provides utility services to a military installation, the Secretary of 
Defense or the Secretary of a military department may authorize a 
contract on a sole source basis with the conveyee of the utility system 
to carry out a military construction project as authorized and 
appropriated for by law for an infrastructure improvement that enhances 
the reliability, resilience, efficiency, physical security, or 
cybersecurity of the utility system.
    ``(2) The Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a military 
Department may convey under subsection (j) any infrastructure 
constructed under paragraph (1) that is in addition to the utility 
system conveyed under such paragraph.''.

SEC. 2872. LIMITATION ON AUTHORITY TO MODIFY OR RESTRICT PUBLIC ACCESS 
              TO GREENBURY POINT CONSERVATION AREA AT NAVAL SUPPORT 
              ACTIVITY ANNAPOLIS, MARYLAND.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b), the 
Secretary of the Navy may not modify or restrict public access to the 
Greenbury Point Conservation Area at Naval Support Activity Annapolis, 
Maryland, until--
            (1) the Secretary submits to Congress a report describing 
        the manner in which such access will be modified or restricted; 
        and
            (2) a law is enacted permitting such modifications or 
        restrictions.
    (b) Exceptions.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to--
            (1) temporary restrictions to protect public safety that 
        are necessitated by emergent situations, hazardous conditions, 
        maintenance of existing facilities, or live fire exercises; or
            (2) the lease or transfer of the Greenbury Point 
        Conservation Area to another public entity.

SEC. 2873. AUTHORIZATION FOR THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TO RESOLVE THE 
              ELECTRICAL UTILITY OPERATIONS AT FORMER NAVAL AIR STATION 
              BARBERS POINT (CURRENTLY KNOWN AS ``KALAELOA''), HAWAII.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Navy (in this section 
referred to as the ``Secretary'') may enter into an agreement with the 
State of Hawaii for the purpose of resolving the electrical utility 
operations at Former Naval Air Station Barbers Point, also known as 
``Kalaeloa'', Hawaii.
    (b) Elements of Agreement.--An agreement entered into under 
subsection (a) shall include a requirement that the Secretary--
            (1) assist with--
                    (A) the transfer of customers of the Navy off of 
                the electrical utility system of the Navy in the 
                location specified in such subsection; and
                    (B) the enhancement of the new surrounding 
                electrical system to accept any additional load from 
                such transfer, with a priority in the downtown area, 
                which is home to nine large customers, including the 
                Hawaii Army National Guard;
            (2) provide the instantaneous peak demand analysis and 
        design necessary to conduct such transfer;
            (3) provide rights of way and easements necessary to 
        support the construction of replacement electrical 
        infrastructure; and
            (4) be responsible for all environmental assessments and 
        remediation and costs related to the removal and disposal of 
        the electrical utility system of the Navy once it is no longer 
        in use.
    (c) Limitation on Expenditure of Amounts.--The Secretary may expend 
not more than $48,000,000 during any fiscal year to provide support for 
an agreement entered into under subsection (a).
    (d) Notification.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than every 180 days 
thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on progress made in initiating and executing an 
agreement under subsection (a).

SEC. 2874. CLARIFICATION OF OTHER TRANSACTION AUTHORITY FOR 
              INSTALLATION OR FACILITY PROTOTYPING.

    Section 4022(i) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a period;
                    (B) by striking subparagraph (B); and
                    (C) by striking ``paragraph (1)'' and all that 
                follows through ``not more'' and inserting ``paragraph 
                (1), except for projects carried out for the purpose of 
                repairing a facility, not more'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
        paragraph (3):
            ``(3) Use of amounts.--The Secretary of Defense or the 
        Secretary of a military department may carry out prototype 
        projects under the pilot program established under paragraph 
        (1) using amounts available for military construction, 
        notwithstanding--
                    ``(A) subchapters I and III of chapter 169 of this 
                title; and
                    ``(B) chapters 221 and 223 of this title.''.

SEC. 2875. REQUIREMENT THAT DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INCLUDE MILITARY 
              INSTALLATION RESILIENCE IN REAL PROPERTY MANAGEMENT AND 
              INSTALLATION MASTER PLANNING OF DEPARTMENT.

    Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall--
            (1) update Department of Defense Instruction 4165.70 
        (relating to real property management) and Unified Facilities 
        Criteria 2-100-01 (relating to installation master planning) 
        to--
                    (A) include a requirement to incorporate the impact 
                of military installation resilience in all installation 
                master plans;
                    (B) include a list of all sources of information 
                approved by the Department of Defense;
                    (C) define the 17 military installation resilience 
                hazards to ensure that the impacts from such hazards 
                are reported consistently across the Department;
                    (D) require military installations to address the 
                rationale for determining that any such hazard is not 
                applicable to the installation;
                    (E) standardize reporting formats for military 
                installation resilience plans;
                    (F) establish and define standardized risk rating 
                categories for the use by all military departments; and
                    (G) define criteria for determining the level of 
                risk to an installation to compare hazards between 
                military departments; and
            (2) require the Secretary of each military department to 
        update the handbook for the military department concerned to 
        incorporate the requirements under paragraph (1).

SEC. 2876. INCREASE OF LIMITATION ON FEE FOR ARCHITECTURAL AND 
              ENGINEERING SERVICES PROCURED BY MILITARY DEPARTMENTS.

    (a) Army.--Section 7540(b) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``6 percent'' and inserting ``10 percent''.
    (b) Navy.--Section 8612(b) of such title is amended by striking ``6 
percent'' and inserting ``10 percent''.
    (c) Air Force.--Section 9540(b) of such title is amended by 
striking ``6 percent'' and inserting ``10 percent''.

SEC. 2877. REQUIREMENT THAT ALL MATERIAL TYPES BE CONSIDERED FOR 
              DESIGN-BID-BUILD MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary concerned may not proceed from the 
design phase of a design-bid-build military construction project or 
solicit bids for the construction phase of a design-bid-build military 
construction project until the Secretary of Defense certifies that all 
materials included in the Unified Facilities Criteria of the Department 
of Defense have been equally considered for such project.
    (b) Annual Report.--Not later than January 1 of each year, the 
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall submit 
to the congressional defense committees a report--
            (1) detailing the primary construction material for each 
        design-bid-build military construction project for which a 
        contract was awarded during the previous fiscal year in an 
        amount that exceeds $6,000,000; and
            (2) identifying whether each such project was designed or 
        constructed based off a shelf design used at another 
        installation of the Department of Defense.
    (c) Secretary Concerned Defined.--In this section, the term 
``Secretary concerned'' has the meaning given that term in section 
101(a)(9) of title 10, United States Code.

SEC. 2878. CONTINUING EDUCATION CURRICULUM FOR MEMBERS OF THE MILITARY 
              CONSTRUCTION PLANNING AND DESIGN WORKFORCE AND 
              ACQUISITION WORKFORCE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish a 
continuing education curriculum for members of the military 
construction planning and design workforce of the Department of Defense 
and the acquisition workforce of the Department responsible for 
military construction projects.
    (b) Curriculum.--The continuing education curriculum required under 
subsection (a)--
            (1) shall be focused on improving the understanding, 
        awareness, and utilization of innovative products for 
        construction systems with increased benefits relating to--
                    (A) construction speed;
                    (B) anti-terrorism force protection;
                    (C) lateral wind, seismic activity, and fire 
                performance standards;
                    (D) designs that factor in military installation 
                resilience and protection against extreme weather 
                events;
                    (E) life-cycle cost effectiveness and 
                sustainability;
                    (F) renewability; and
                    (G) carbon sequestration; and
            (2) shall include instruction relating to--
                    (A) all sustainable building materials, such as 
                innovative wood products and mass timber systems; and
                    (B) designs to improve military installation 
                resilience using projection data against extreme 
                weather events.
    (c) Availability and Update.--The Secretary shall ensure that--
            (1) the continuing education curriculum required under 
        subsection (a) is made available to each element of the 
        military construction community not later than 60 days after 
        completion of the curriculum; and
            (2) such curriculum is updated whenever a new construction 
        material is approved by the Unified Facilities Criteria of the 
        Department.
    (d) Academia Input.--In developing the continuing education 
curriculum required under subsection (a), the Secretary shall consult 
with academic institutions.
    (e) Timing.--Not later than January 1, 2025, the Secretary shall 
ensure that--
            (1) not less than 75 percent of the workforce described in 
        subsection (a) has completed the first iteration of the 
        continuing education curriculum required under such subsection; 
        and
            (2) such workforce receives updated information on 
        innovative construction techniques on a continuing basis.
    (f) Report.--Not later than June 1, 2024, the Secretary shall 
submit to appropriate committees of Congress a report containing an 
update on the status of the continuing education curriculum required 
under subsection (a).
    (g) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs 
                and Related Agencies of the Committee on Appropriations 
                of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs 
                and Related Agencies of the Committee on Appropriations 
                of the House of Representatives.
            (2) Military installation resilience.--The term ``military 
        installation resilience'' has the meaning given that term in 
        section 101(e)(8) of title 10, United States Code.

SEC. 2879. GUIDANCE ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE-WIDE STANDARDS FOR ACCESS 
              TO INSTALLATIONS OF THE DEPARTMENT.

    (a) Interim Guidance.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall promulgate 
interim guidance to the appropriate official or officials within the 
Department of Defense for purposes of establishing final standards of 
the Department for fitness of individuals for access to installations 
of the Department, which shall include modifying Department of Defense 
Manual 5200.08, ``Physical Security Program: Access to DoD 
Installations'', or any comparable or successor policy guidance 
document.
    (b) Final Guidance.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall promulgate final 
guidance described in subsection (a).
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than 60 days after promulgating interim 
guidance required under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall 
brief the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate the House of 
Representatives on such guidance, which shall include a timeline for 
promulgation of final guidance as required under subsection (b).

SEC. 2880. DEPLOYMENT OF EXISTING CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS.

    (a) Plan.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a plan 
to utilize, transfer, or donate to States on the southern border of the 
United States all existing excess border wall construction materials, 
including bollards, for constructing a permanent physical barrier to 
stop illicit human and vehicle traffic along the border of the United 
States with Mexico.
    (b) Execution of Plan.--Not later than 15 days after submitting to 
Congress the plan required under subsection (a), taking into account 
ongoing audits being conducted by the Defense Contract Audit Agency and 
ongoing construction contract negotiations by the Army Corps of 
Engineers, so long as any ongoing audits or construction contract 
negotiations are not a cause for delay, the Secretary shall work with 
the Defense Logistics Agency to execute that plan until the Department 
of Defense is no longer incurring any costs to maintain, store, or 
protect the materials specified under such subsection.
    (c) Requirements of Requesting States.--Any State requesting border 
wall construction materials made available under this section must 
certify, in writing, that the materials it accepts will be exclusively 
used for the construction of a permanent physical barrier along the 
border of the United States with Mexico.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report 
containing the following:
            (1) A detailed description of the decision process of the 
        Secretary to forgo the excess property disposal process of the 
        Department of Defense and instead pay to store border wall 
        panels.
            (2) A list of entities the Department is paying for use of 
        their privately owned land to store unused border wall 
        construction materials, with appropriate action taken to 
        protect personally identifiable information, such as by making 
        the list of entities available in an annex that is labeled as 
        controlled unclassified information.
            (3) An explanation of the process through which the 
        Department contracted with private landowners to store unused 
        border wall construction materials, including whether there was 
        a competitive contracting process and whether the landowners 
        have instituted an inventory review system.
            (4) A description of any investigations by the Inspector 
        General of the Department that have been opened related to 
        storing border wall construction materials.

SEC. 2881. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.

    (a) Numu Newe Special Management Area.--Section 2902(c) of the 
Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (16 U.S.C. 
460gggg(c)) is amended by striking ``217,845'' and inserting 
``209,181''.
    (b) Reduction of Impact of Fallon Range Training Complex 
Modernization.--Section 2995(a)(3)(A) of the Military Land Withdrawals 
Act of 2013 (title XXIX of Public Law 113-66), as added by section 2901 
of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 
(division B of Public Law 117-263; 136 Stat. 3016) is amended by 
inserting ``Gas'' after ``Basin''.

 DIVISION C--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND 
                          OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

      TITLE XXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

       Subtitle A--National Security Programs and Authorizations

SEC. 3101. NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2024 for 
the activities of the National Nuclear Security Administration in 
carrying out programs as specified in the funding table in section 
4701.
    (b) Authorization of New Plant Projects.--From funds referred to in 
subsection (a) that are available for carrying out plant projects, the 
Secretary of Energy may carry out new plant projects for the National 
Nuclear Security Administration as follows:
            Project 24-D-513, Z-Pinch Experimental Underground System 
        Test Bed Facilities Improvement, Nevada National Security Site, 
        Nye County, Nevada, $80,000,000.
            Project 24-D-512, TA-46 Protective Force Facility, Los 
        Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico, 
        $48,500,000.
            Project 24-D-511, Plutonium Production Building, Los Alamos 
        National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico, $48,500,000.
            Project 24-D-510, Analytic Gas Laboratory, Pantex Plant, 
        Panhandle, Texas, $35,000,000.
            Project 24-D-530, Naval Reactors Facility Medical Science 
        Complex, Idaho Falls, Idaho, $36,584,000.

SEC. 3102. DEFENSE ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2024 for 
defense environmental cleanup activities in carrying out programs as 
specified in the funding table in section 4701.
    (b) Authorization of New Plant Projects.--From funds referred to in 
subsection (a) that are available for carrying out plant projects, the 
Secretary of Energy may carry out, for defense environmental cleanup 
activities, the following new plant projects:
            Project 24-D-401, Environmental Restoration Disposal 
        Facility Super Cell 11 Expansion Project, Hanford Site, 
        Richland, Washington, $1,000,000.

SEC. 3103. OTHER DEFENSE ACTIVITIES.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of 
Energy for fiscal year 2024 for other defense activities in carrying 
out programs as specified in the funding table in section 4701.

SEC. 3104. NUCLEAR ENERGY.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of 
Energy for fiscal year 2024 for nuclear energy as specified in the 
funding table in section 4701.

   Subtitle B-- Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations

SEC. 3111. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR NAVAL NUCLEAR FUEL SYSTEMS 
              BASED ON LOW-ENRICHED URANIUM.

    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for 
fiscal year 2024 for the National Nuclear Security Administration for 
the purpose of conducting research and development of an advanced naval 
nuclear fuel system based on low-enriched uranium may be obligated or 
expended until the following determinations are submitted to the 
congressional defense committees:
            (1) A determination made jointly by the Secretary of Energy 
        and the Secretary of Defense with respect to whether the 
        determination made jointly by the Secretary of Energy and the 
        Secretary of the Navy pursuant to section 3118(c)(1) of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public 
        Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1196) and submitted to the congressional 
        defense committees on March 25, 2018, that the United States 
        should not pursue research and development of an advanced naval 
        nuclear fuel system based on low-enriched uranium, remains 
        valid.
            (2) A determination by the Secretary of the Navy with 
        respect to whether an advanced naval nuclear fuel system based 
        on low-enriched uranium can be produced that would not reduce 
        vessel capability, increase expense, or reduce operational 
        availability as a result of refueling requirements.

SEC. 3112. PROHIBITION ON ARIES EXPANSION BEFORE REALIZATION OF 30 PIT 
              PER YEAR BASE CAPABILITY.

    Section 4219 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2538a) is 
amended by--
     (a) redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g); and
    (b) inserting after subsection (e) the following new subsection 
(f):
    ``(f) Prohibition on ARIES Expansion Before Realization of 30 Pit 
Per Year Base Capability.--
            ``(1) In general.--Unless the Administrator certifies to 
        the congressional defense committees that the base capability 
        to produce 30 plutonium pits per year has been established at 
        Los Alamos National Laboratory, the Advanced Recovery and 
        Integrated Extraction System (commonly known as `ARIES') spaces 
        at the Plutonium Facility at Technical Area 55 (commonly known 
        as `PF-4') may not be modified, including by installing 
        additional equipment.
            ``(2) Exceptions.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply with 
        respect to--
                    ``(A) the planning and design of an additional 
                ARIES capability; or
                    ``(B) the transfer of the ARIES capability to a 
                location other than PF-4.''.

SEC. 3113. PLUTONIUM MODERNIZATION PROGRAM MANAGEMENT.

     Section 4219 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2538a) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(h) Not later than 570 days after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the Administrator for Nuclear Security shall ensure that the 
plutonium modernization program established by the Office of Defense 
Programs of the National Nuclear Security Administration, or any 
subsequently developed program designed to meet the requirements under 
subsection (a), is managed in accordance with the requirements of the 
Enhanced Management A program management category described in the 
execution instruction of the Office of Defense Programs entitled `DP 
Program Execution Instruction: NA-10 Program Management Tools and 
Processes' and issued on January 14, 2016, or any subsequent 
directive.''.

SEC. 3114. PANTEX EXPLOSIVES MANUFACTURING CAPABILITY.

    Subtitle A of title XLII of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 
U.S.C. 2521 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
section:

``SEC. 4225. PANTEX EXPLOSIVES MANUFACTURING CAPABILITY.

    ``(a) In General.--Not later than the date on which the W87-1 
modification program enters into phase 6.5 of the joint nuclear weapons 
life cycle process (as defined in section 4220), the Administrator 
shall establish at the Pantex Plant a conventional high explosives 
production capability with sufficient capacity to support full rate 
production of the main explosives used for the W87-1 warhead.
    ``(b) Briefing.--On the day after the date that the budget of the 
President is submitted to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, 
United States Code, for fiscal year 2025 and each fiscal year 
thereafter, the Administrator shall brief the congressional defense 
committees on the progress of the Administration in achieving the 
capability described in subsection (a).
    ``(c) Termination.--Subsection (b) shall terminate upon the date 
that the Administrator certifies to the congressional defense 
committees that the capability described in subsection (a) has been 
achieved.''.

SEC. 3115. LIMITATION ON ESTABLISHING AN ENDURING BIOASSURANCE PROGRAM 
              WITHIN THE NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title XLVIII of the Atomic Energy 
Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2791 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end 
the following section:

``SEC. 4815. LIMITATION ON ESTABLISHING AN ENDURING BIOASSURANCE 
              PROGRAM WITHIN THE ADMINISTRATION.

    ``(a) In General.--The Administrator may not establish a program 
within the Administration for the purposes of executing an enduring 
national security research and development effort to broaden the role 
of the Department of Energy in national biodefense.
    ``(b) Rule of Construction.--The limitation described in subsection 
(a) shall not be interpreted--
            ``(1) to prohibit the establishment of a bioassurance 
        program for the purpose of executing enduring national security 
        research and development in any component of the Department of 
        Energy other than the Administration or in any other Federal 
        agency; or
            ``(2) to impede the use of resources of the Administration, 
        including resources provided by a national security laboratory 
        or a nuclear weapons production facility site, to support the 
        execution of a bioassurance program, if such support is 
        provided--
                    ``(A) on a cost-reimbursable basis to an entity 
                that is not a component of the Department of Energy; 
                and
                    ``(B) in a manner that does not interfere with 
                mission of such laboratory or facility.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the Atomic 
Energy Defense Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 4814 the following new item:

``Sec. 4815. Limitation on establishing an enduring bioassurance 
                            program within the Administration.''.

SEC. 3116. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY ON ACCEPTANCE OF CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 
              ACCELERATION OR REMOVAL OR SECURITY OF FISSILE MATERIALS, 
              RADIOLOGICAL MATERIALS, AND RELATED EQUIPMENT AT 
              VULNERABLE SITES WORLDWIDE.

    Section 4306B(f)(6) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 
2569(f)(6)) is amended by striking ``2028'' and inserting ``2033''.

SEC. 3117. MODIFICATION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR PROGRAM ON 
              VULNERABLE SITES.

    (a) In General.--Section 4306B of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 
U.S.C. 2569) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (d);
            (2) by redesignating subsections (e), (f), and (g) as 
        subsections (d), (e), and (f), respectively; and
            (3) in paragraph (6) of subsection (e), as so redesignated, 
        by striking ``2028'' and inserting ``2030''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 4309(c)(7) of the Atomic Energy 
Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2575(c)(7)) is amended by striking ``section 
3132(f) of the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2005 (50 U.S.C. 2569(f))'' and inserting ``section 
4306B(e)''.

SEC. 3118. IMPLEMENTATION OF ENHANCED MISSION DELIVERY INITIATIVE.

    (a) In General.--Concurrent with the submission of the budget of 
the President to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
States Code, for each of fiscal years 2025 through 2029, the 
Administrator for Nuclear Security, acting through the Director for 
Cost Estimating and Program Evaluation, shall brief the congressional 
defense committees on the status of implementing the 18 principal 
recommendations and associated subelements of the report entitled 
``Evolving the Nuclear Security Enterprise: A Report of the Enhanced 
Mission Delivery Initiative'', published by the National Nuclear 
Security Administration in September 2022.
    (b) Elements of Briefings.--Each briefing required by subsection 
(a) shall address--
            (1) the status of implementing each recommendation 
        described in subsection (a);
            (2) with respect to each recommendation that has been 
        implemented, whether the outcome of such implementation is 
        achieving the desired result;
            (3) with respect to each recommendation that has not been 
        implemented, the reason for not implementing such 
        recommendation;
            (4) whether additional legislation is required in order to 
        implement a recommendation; and
            (5) such other matters as the Administrator considers 
        necessary.

SEC. 3119. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS UNTIL PROVISION OF SPEND PLAN FOR 
              W80-4 ALT WEAPON DEVELOPMENT.

    Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal 
year 2024 for operations of the Office of the Administrator for Nuclear 
Security, not more than 50 percent may be obligated or expended until 
the date on which the Administrator for Nuclear Security submits to the 
congressional defense committees the spend plan for the warhead 
associated with the sea-launched cruise missile required by section 
1642(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 
(Public Law 117-263).

SEC. 3120. ANALYSES OF NUCLEAR PROGRAMS OF FOREIGN COUNTRIES.

    (a) Capability to Conduct Analyses of Nuclear Programs.--The 
Secretary of Energy shall, using existing authorities of the Secretary, 
take such actions as are necessary to improve the ability of the 
Department of Energy to conduct comprehensive, integrated analyses of 
the nuclear programs of foreign countries.
    (b) Additional Analyses Required.--The Secretary shall conduct 
analyses of--
            (1) countries that may pursue nuclear weapons programs in 
        the future;
            (2) developing technologies that make it easier for the 
        governments of countries or for non-state actors to acquire 
        nuclear weapons; and
            (3) entities that may be developing the ability to supply 
        sensitive nuclear technologies but may not yet have effective 
        programs in place to ensure compliance with export controls.

SEC. 3121. ENHANCING NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION SUPPLY 
              CHAIN RELIABILITY.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle A of title XLVIII of the Atomic Energy 
Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2781 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new section:

``SEC. 4808. SUPPLY CHAIN RELIABILITY ASSURANCE PROGRAM.

    ``The Administrator shall establish a supply chain reliability 
assurance program--
            ``(1) to facilitate collaboration with the Department of 
        Defense and industrial partners to maintain a reliable domestic 
        supplier base for critical materials to meet engineering and 
        performance requirements of the Administration and the 
        Department of Defense; and
            ``(2) to improve coordination with the Infrastructure and 
        Operations Program and the Programmatic Recapitalization 
        Working Group to improve planning for material requirements and 
        potential disruptions to commercial or contractor supply 
        chains, including with respect to--
                    ``(A) assisting in coordination for forecasting 
                future needs in both legacy inventories and new 
                procurements;
                    ``(B) establishing clear requirements for nuclear 
                security enterprise assurance and, when cost-effective, 
                to use capabilities of the Administration to restore 
                mission schedules at risk; and
                    ``(C) collaborating with the Department of Defense 
                and industrial partners to establish processes to 
                mitigate manufacturing challenges and to develop 
                strategies to lower long-term costs, while identifying 
                and preserving production of materials and components 
                by the Administration.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the Atomic 
Energy Defense Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 4807 the following new item:

``Sec. 4808. Supply chain reliability assurance program.''.

SEC. 3122. TRANSFER OF CYBERSECURITY RESPONSIBILITIES TO ADMINISTRATOR 
              FOR NUCLEAR SECURITY.

    The National Nuclear Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2401 et 
seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 3212(b) (50 U.S.C. 2402(b)), by adding at 
        the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(20) Information resources management, including 
        cybersecurity.''; and
            (2) in section 3232(b)(3)(50 U.S.C. 2422(b)(3)), by 
        striking ``and cyber''.

SEC. 3123. REDESIGNATING DUTIES RELATED TO DEPARTMENTAL RADIOLOGICAL 
              AND NUCLEAR INCIDENT RESPONSES.

    (a) Deputy Administrator for Defense Programs.--Section 3214(b) of 
the National Nuclear Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2404 (b)) 
is amended by striking paragraph (3).
    (b) Administrator for Nuclear Security.--Section 3212(b)(7) of the 
National Nuclear Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2402(b)(7)) is 
amended by inserting ``and Nuclear Emergency Support Team capabilities, 
including all field-deployed and remote technical support to public 
health and safety missions, countering weapons of mass destruction 
operations, technical and operational nuclear forensics, and responses 
to United States nuclear weapon accidents'' after ``management''.

SEC. 3124. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH CERTAIN CONTRACTING, 
              PROGRAM MANAGEMENT, SCIENTIFIC, ENGINEERING, AND 
              TECHNICAL POSITIONS.

    Section 3241 of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act 
(50 U.S.C. 2441) is amended by striking ``800'' and inserting 
``1,200''.

SEC. 3125. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS TO THE ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE ACT.

    The Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 4306(d)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Not later than 
                March 15, 2005, the'' and inserting ``The''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``Not later than 
                January 1, 2006, the'' and inserting ``The''; and
            (2) in section 4807(f)(1), by striking ``2022'' and 
        inserting ``2030''.

SEC. 3126. AMENDMENT TO PERIOD FOR BRIEFING REQUIREMENTS.

    Section 4807(f)(1) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 
2787(f)(1)) is amended by striking ``2022'' and inserting ``2032''.

SEC. 3127. REPEAL OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR URANIUM CAPABILITIES 
              REPLACEMENT PROJECT.

    Section 3123(g) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2178) is repealed.

          Subtitle C--Budget and Financial Management Matters

SEC. 3131. UPDATED FINANCIAL INTEGRATION POLICY.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Administrator for Nuclear Security shall issue an updated 
financial integration policy, which shall include the following:
            (1) Updated responsibilities for offices of the National 
        Nuclear Security Administration and requirements for management 
        and operating contractors, including contractors at sites that 
        are not sites of the Administration.
            (2) Guidance for how offices of the Administration should 
        use common financial data, including guidance requiring that 
        such data be used as the primary source of financial data by 
        program offices, to the extent practicable.
            (3) Processes recommended by the Government Accountability 
        Office to improve financial integration efforts of the 
        Administration, including an internal process to verify how 
        management and operating contractors crosswalk data from their 
        systems to the appropriate work breakdown structure of the 
        Administration and apply common cost element definitions.
            (4) Any other matters the Administrator considers 
        appropriate.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

SEC. 3141. INTEGRATION OF TECHNICAL EXPERTISE OF DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY 
              INTO POLICYMAKING.

    The Secretary of Energy shall take such measures as are necessary 
to improve the integration of the scientific and technical expertise of 
the Department of Energy, especially the expertise of the national 
laboratories, into policymaking, including by--
            (1) ensuring that such expertise is involved during 
        interagency discussions, regardless of the topic of such 
        discussions;
            (2) decreasing restrictions on personnel of laboratories 
        and other facilities of the Department working in the 
        Department headquarters for 2- to 3-year rotations;
            (3) increasing collaboration among program managers and 
        personnel of laboratories and other facilities of the 
        Department during policy deliberations; and
            (4) creating mechanisms for providing technical advice to 
        officials of the Department responsible for nonproliferation 
        policy.

SEC. 3142. AMENDMENTS TO THE ENERGY EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS 
              COMPENSATION PROGRAM ACT OF 2000.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Beryllium 
Testing Fairness Act''.
    (b) Modification of Demonstration of Beryllium Sensitivity.--
Section 3621(8)(A) of the Energy Employees Occupational Illness 
Compensation Program Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 7384l(8)(A)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``established by an abnormal'' and 
        inserting the following: ``established by--
                            ``(i) an abnormal'';
            (2) by striking the period at the end and inserting ``; 
        or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(ii) three borderline beryllium 
                        lymphocyte proliferation tests performed on 
                        blood cells over a period of 3 years.''.
    (c) Extension of Advisory Board on Toxic Substances and Worker 
Health.--Section 3687(j) of the Energy Employees Occupational Illness 
Compensation Program Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 7385s-16(j)) is amended by 
striking ``10 years'' and inserting ``15 years''.

SEC. 3143. PROHIBITION ON SALES OF PETROLEUM PRODUCTS FROM THE 
              STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVE TO CERTAIN COUNTRIES.

    (a) Prohibitions.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
unless a waiver has been issued under subsection (b), the Secretary of 
Energy shall not draw down and sell petroleum products from the 
Strategic Petroleum Reserve--
            (1) to any entity that is under the ownership or control of 
        the Chinese Communist Party, the People's Republic of China, 
        the Russian Federation, the Democratic People's Republic of 
        Korea, or the Islamic Republic of Iran; or
            (2) except on the condition that such petroleum products 
        will not be exported to the People's Republic of China, the 
        Russian Federation, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, 
        or the Islamic Republic of Iran.
    (b) Waiver.--
            (1) In general.--On application by a bidder, the Secretary 
        of Energy may waive, prior to the date of the applicable 
        auction, the prohibitions described in subsection (a) with 
        respect to the sale of crude oil to that bidder at that 
        auction.
            (2) Requirement.--The Secretary of Energy may issue a 
        waiver under this subsection only if the Secretary determines 
        that the waiver is in the interest of the national security of 
        the United States.
            (3) Applications.--A bidder seeking a waiver under this 
        subsection shall submit to the Secretary of Energy an 
        application by such date, in such form, and containing such 
        information as the Secretary of Energy may require.
            (4) Notice to congress.--Not later than 15 days after 
        issuing a waiver under this subsection, the Secretary of Energy 
        shall provide a copy of the waiver to the Committee on Energy 
        and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Energy 
        and Commerce of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 3144. U.S. NUCLEAR FUEL SECURITY INITIATIVE.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Nuclear Fuel 
Security Act of 2023''.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the Department should--
                    (A) prioritize activities to increase domestic 
                production of low-enriched uranium; and
                    (B) accelerate efforts to establish a domestic 
                high-assay, low-enriched uranium enrichment capability; 
                and
            (2) if domestic enrichment of high-assay, low-enriched 
        uranium will not be commercially available at the scale needed 
        in time to meet the needs of the advanced nuclear reactor 
        demonstration projects of the Department, the Secretary shall 
        consider and implement, as necessary--
                    (A) all viable options to make high-assay, low-
                enriched uranium produced from inventories owned by the 
                Department available in a manner that is sufficient to 
                maximize the potential for the Department to meet the 
                needs and schedules of advanced nuclear reactor 
                developers, without impacting existing Department 
                missions, until such time that commercial enrichment 
                and deconversion capability for high-assay, low-
                enriched uranium exists at a scale sufficient to meet 
                future needs; and
                    (B) all viable options for partnering with 
                countries that are allies or partners of the United 
                States to meet those needs and schedules until that 
                time.
    (c) Objectives.--The objectives of this section are--
            (1) to expeditiously increase domestic production of low-
        enriched uranium;
            (2) to expeditiously increase domestic production of high-
        assay, low-enriched uranium by an annual quantity, and in such 
        form, determined by the Secretary to be sufficient to meet the 
        needs of--
                    (A) advanced nuclear reactor developers; and
                    (B) the consortium;
            (3) to ensure the availability of domestically produced, 
        converted, enriched, deconverted, and reduced uranium in a 
        quantity determined by the Secretary, in consultation with U.S. 
        nuclear energy companies, to be sufficient to address a 
        reasonably anticipated supply disruption;
            (4) to address gaps and deficiencies in the domestic 
        production, conversion, enrichment, deconversion, and reduction 
        of uranium by partnering with countries that are allies or 
        partners of the United States if domestic options are not 
        practicable;
            (5) to ensure that, in the event of a supply disruption in 
        the nuclear fuel market, a reserve of nuclear fuels is 
        available to serve as a backup supply to support the nuclear 
        nonproliferation and civil nuclear energy objectives of the 
        Department;
            (6) to support enrichment, deconversion, and reduction 
        technology deployed in the United States; and
            (7) to ensure that, until such time that domestic 
        enrichment and deconversion of high-assay, low-enriched uranium 
        is commercially available at the scale needed to meet the needs 
        of advanced nuclear reactor developers, the Secretary considers 
        and implements, as necessary--
                    (A) all viable options to make high-assay, low-
                enriched uranium produced from inventories owned by the 
                Department available in a manner that is sufficient to 
                maximize the potential for the Department to meet the 
                needs and schedules of advanced nuclear reactor 
                developers; and
                    (B) all viable options for partnering with 
                countries that are allies or partners of the United 
                States to meet those needs and schedules.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Advanced nuclear reactor.--The term ``advanced nuclear 
        reactor'' has the meaning given the term in section 951(b) of 
        the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16271(b)).
            (2) Associated entity.--The term ``associated entity'' 
        means an entity that--
                    (A) is owned, controlled, or dominated by--
                            (i) the government of a country that is an 
                        ally or partner of the United States; or
                            (ii) an associated individual; or
                    (B) is organized under the laws of, or otherwise 
                subject to the jurisdiction of, a country that is an 
                ally or partner of the United States, including a 
                corporation that is incorporated in such a country.
            (3) Associated individual.--The term ``associated 
        individual'' means an alien who is a national of a country that 
        is an ally or partner of the United States.
            (4) Consortium.--The term ``consortium'' means the 
        consortium established under section 2001(a)(2)(F) of the 
        Energy Act of 2020 (42 U.S.C. 16281(a)(2)(F)).
            (5) Department.--The term ``Department'' means the 
        Department of Energy.
            (6) High-assay, low-enriched uranium; haleu.--The term 
        ``high-assay, low-enriched uranium'' or ``HALEU'' means high-
        assay low-enriched uranium (as defined in section 2001(d) of 
        the Energy Act of 2020 (42 U.S.C. 16281(d))).
            (7) Low-enriched uranium; leu.--The term ``low-enriched 
        uranium'' or ``LEU'' means each of--
                    (A) low-enriched uranium (as defined in section 
                3102 of the USEC Privatization Act (42 U.S.C. 2297h)); 
                and
                    (B) low-enriched uranium (as defined in section 
                3112A(a) of that Act (42 U.S.C. 2297h-10a(a))).
            (8) Programs.--The term ``Programs'' means--
                    (A) the Nuclear Fuel Security Program established 
                under subsection (e)(1);
                    (B) the American Assured Fuel Supply Program of the 
                Department; and
                    (C) the HALEU for Advanced Nuclear Reactor 
                Demonstration Projects Program established under 
                subsection (e)(3).
            (9) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.
            (10) U.S. nuclear energy company.--The term ``U.S. nuclear 
        energy company'' means a company that--
                    (A) is organized under the laws of, or otherwise 
                subject to the jurisdiction of, the United States; and
                    (B) is involved in the nuclear energy industry.
    (e) Establishment and Expansion of Programs.--The Secretary, 
consistent with the objectives described in subsection (c), shall--
            (1) establish a program, to be known as the ``Nuclear Fuel 
        Security Program'', to increase the quantity of LEU and HALEU 
        produced by U.S. nuclear energy companies;
            (2) expand the American Assured Fuel Supply Program of the 
        Department to ensure the availability of domestically produced, 
        converted, enriched, deconverted, and reduced uranium in the 
        event of a supply disruption; and
            (3) establish a program, to be known as the ``HALEU for 
        Advanced Nuclear Reactor Demonstration Projects Program''--
                    (A) to maximize the potential for the Department to 
                meet the needs and schedules of advanced nuclear 
                reactor developers until such time that commercial 
                enrichment and deconversion capability for HALEU exists 
                in the United States at a scale sufficient to meet 
                future needs; and
                    (B) where practicable, to partner with countries 
                that are allies or partners of the United States to 
                meet those needs and schedules until that time.
    (f) Nuclear Fuel Security Program.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out the Nuclear Fuel Security 
        Program, the Secretary--
                    (A) shall--
                            (i) not later than 180 days after the date 
                        of enactment of this Act, enter into 2 or more 
                        contracts to begin acquiring not less than 100 
                        metric tons per year of LEU by December 31, 
                        2026 (or the earliest operationally feasible 
                        date thereafter), to ensure diversity of supply 
                        in domestic uranium mining, conversion, 
                        enrichment, and deconversion capacity and 
                        technologies, including new capacity, among 
                        U.S. nuclear energy companies;
                            (ii) not later than 180 days after the date 
                        of enactment of this Act, enter into 2 or more 
                        contracts with members of the consortium to 
                        begin acquiring not less than 20 metric tons 
                        per year of HALEU by December 31, 2027 (or the 
                        earliest operationally feasible date 
                        thereafter), from U.S. nuclear energy 
                        companies;
                            (iii) utilize only uranium produced, 
                        converted, enriched, deconverted, and reduced 
                        in--
                                    (I) the United States; or
                                    (II) if domestic options are not 
                                practicable, a country that is an ally 
                                or partner of the United States; and
                            (iv) to the maximum extent practicable, 
                        ensure that the use of domestic uranium 
                        utilized as a result of that program does not 
                        negatively affect the economic operation of 
                        nuclear reactors in the United States; and
                    (B)(i) may not make commitments under this 
                subsection (including cooperative agreements (used in 
                accordance with section 6305 of title 31, United States 
                Code), purchase agreements, guarantees, leases, service 
                contracts, or any other type of commitment) for the 
                purchase or other acquisition of HALEU or LEU unless--
                            (I) funds are specifically provided for 
                        those purposes in advance in appropriations 
                        Acts enacted after the date of enactment of 
                        this Act; or
                            (II) the commitment is funded entirely by 
                        funds made available to the Secretary from the 
                        account described in subsection (j)(2)(B); and
                    (ii) may make a commitment described in clause (i) 
                only--
                            (I) if the full extent of the anticipated 
                        costs stemming from the commitment is recorded 
                        as an obligation at the time that the 
                        commitment is made; and
                            (II) to the extent of that up-front 
                        obligation recorded in full at that time.
            (2) Considerations.--In carrying out paragraph (1)(A)(ii), 
        the Secretary shall consider and, if appropriate, implement--
                    (A) options to ensure the quickest availability of 
                commercially enriched HALEU, including--
                            (i) partnerships between 2 or more 
                        commercial enrichers; and
                            (ii) utilization of up to 10-percent 
                        enriched uranium as feedstock in demonstration-
                        scale or commercial HALEU enrichment 
                        facilities;
                    (B) options to partner with countries that are 
                allies or partners of the United States to provide LEU 
                and HALEU for commercial purposes;
                    (C) options that provide for an array of HALEU--
                            (i) enrichment levels;
                            (ii) output levels to meet demand; and
                            (iii) fuel forms, including uranium metal 
                        and oxide; and
                    (D) options--
                            (i) to replenish, as necessary, Department 
                        stockpiles of uranium that were intended to be 
                        downblended for other purposes, but were 
                        instead used in carrying out activities under 
                        the HALEU for Advanced Nuclear Reactor 
                        Demonstration Projects Program;
                            (ii) to continue supplying HALEU to meet 
                        the needs of the recipients of an award made 
                        pursuant to the funding opportunity 
                        announcement of the Department numbered DE-FOA-
                        0002271 for Pathway 1, Advanced Reactor 
                        Demonstrations; and
                            (iii) to make HALEU available to other 
                        advanced nuclear reactor developers and other 
                        end-users.
            (3) Avoidance of market disruptions.--In carrying out the 
        Nuclear Fuel Security Program, the Secretary, to the extent 
        practicable and consistent with the purposes of that program, 
        shall not disrupt or replace market mechanisms by competing 
        with U.S. nuclear energy companies.
    (g) Expansion of the American Assured Fuel Supply Program.--The 
Secretary, in consultation with U.S. nuclear energy companies, shall--
            (1) expand the American Assured Fuel Supply Program of the 
        Department by merging the operations of the Uranium Reserve 
        Program of the Department with the American Assured Fuel Supply 
        Program; and
            (2) in carrying out the American Assured Fuel Supply 
        Program of the Department, as expanded under paragraph (1)--
                    (A) maintain, replenish, diversify, or increase the 
                quantity of uranium made available by that program in a 
                manner determined by the Secretary to be consistent 
                with the purposes of that program and the objectives 
                described in subsection (c);
                    (B) utilize only uranium produced, converted, 
                enriched, deconverted, and reduced in--
                            (i) the United States; or
                            (ii) if domestic options are not 
                        practicable, a country that is an ally or 
                        partner of the United States;
                    (C) make uranium available from the American 
                Assured Fuel Supply, subject to terms and conditions 
                determined by the Secretary to be reasonable and 
                appropriate;
                    (D) refill and expand the supply of uranium in the 
                American Assured Fuel Supply, including by maintaining 
                a limited reserve of uranium to address a potential 
                event in which a domestic or foreign recipient of 
                uranium experiences a supply disruption for which 
                uranium cannot be obtained through normal market 
                mechanisms or under normal market conditions; and
                    (E) take other actions that the Secretary 
                determines to be necessary or appropriate to address 
                the purposes of that program and the objectives 
                described in subsection (c).
    (h) HALEU for Advanced Nuclear Reactor Demonstration Projects 
Program.--
            (1) Activities.--On enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
        shall immediately accelerate and, as necessary, initiate 
        activities to make available from inventories or stockpiles 
        owned by the Department and made available to the consortium, 
        HALEU for use in advanced nuclear reactors that cannot operate 
        on uranium with lower enrichment levels or on alternate fuels, 
        with priority given to the awards made pursuant to the funding 
        opportunity announcement of the Department numbered DE-FOA-
        0002271 for Pathway 1, Advanced Reactor Demonstrations, with 
        additional HALEU to be made available to other advanced nuclear 
        reactor developers, as the Secretary determines to be 
        appropriate.
            (2) Quantity.--In carrying out activities under this 
        subsection, the Secretary shall consider and implement, as 
        necessary, all viable options to make HALEU available in 
        quantities and forms sufficient to maximize the potential for 
        the Department to meet the needs and schedules of advanced 
        nuclear reactor developers, including by seeking to make 
        available--
                    (A) by September 30, 2024, not less than 3 metric 
                tons of HALEU;
                    (B) by December 31, 2025, not less than an 
                additional 8 metric tons of HALEU; and
                    (C) by June 30, 2026, not less than an additional 
                10 metric tons of HALEU.
            (3) Factors for consideration.--In carrying out activities 
        under this subsection, the Secretary shall take into 
        consideration--
                    (A) options for providing HALEU from a stockpile of 
                uranium owned by the Department, including--
                            (i) uranium that has been declared excess 
                        to national security needs during or prior to 
                        fiscal year 2023;
                            (ii) uranium that--
                                    (I) directly meets the needs of 
                                advanced nuclear reactor developers; 
                                but
                                    (II) has been previously used or 
                                fabricated for another purpose;
                            (iii) uranium that can meet the needs of 
                        advanced nuclear reactor developers after 
                        removing radioactive or other contaminants that 
                        resulted from previous use or fabrication of 
                        the fuel for research, development, 
                        demonstration, or deployment activities of the 
                        Department, including activities that reduce 
                        the environmental liability of the Department 
                        by accelerating the processing of uranium from 
                        stockpiles designated as waste;
                            (iv) uranium from a high-enriched uranium 
                        stockpile (excluding stockpiles intended for 
                        national security needs), which can be blended 
                        with lower assay uranium to become HALEU to 
                        meet the needs of advanced nuclear reactor 
                        developers; and
                            (v) uranium from stockpiles intended for 
                        other purposes (excluding stockpiles intended 
                        for national security needs), but for which 
                        uranium could be swapped or replaced in time in 
                        such a manner that would not negatively impact 
                        the missions of the Department;
                    (B) options for expanding, or establishing new, 
                capabilities or infrastructure to support the 
                processing of uranium from Department inventories;
                    (C) options for accelerating the availability of 
                HALEU from HALEU enrichment demonstration projects of 
                the Department;
                    (D) options for providing HALEU from domestically 
                enriched HALEU procured by the Department through a 
                competitive process pursuant to the Nuclear Fuel 
                Security Program established under subsection (e)(1);
                    (E) options to replenish, as needed, Department 
                stockpiles of uranium made available pursuant to 
                subparagraph (A) with domestically enriched HALEU 
                procured by the Department through a competitive 
                process pursuant to the Nuclear Fuel Security Program 
                established under subsection (e)(1); and
                    (F) options that combine 1 or more of the 
                approaches described in subparagraphs (A) through (E) 
                to meet the deadlines described in paragraph (2).
            (4) Limitations.--
                    (A) Certain services.--The Secretary shall not 
                barter or otherwise sell or transfer uranium in any 
                form in exchange for services relating to--
                            (i) the final disposition of radioactive 
                        waste from uranium that is the subject of a 
                        contract for sale, resale, transfer, or lease 
                        under this subsection; or
                            (ii) environmental cleanup activities.
                    (B) Certain commitments.--In carrying out 
                activities under this subsection, the Secretary--
                            (i) may not make commitments under this 
                        subsection (including cooperative agreements 
                        (used in accordance with section 6305 of title 
                        31, United States Code), purchase agreements, 
                        guarantees, leases, service contracts, or any 
                        other type of commitment) for the purchase or 
                        other acquisition of HALEU or LEU unless--
                                    (I) funds are specifically provided 
                                for those purposes in advance in 
                                appropriations Acts enacted after the 
                                date of enactment of this Act; or
                                    (II) the commitment is funded 
                                entirely by funds made available to the 
                                Secretary from the account described in 
                                subsection (j)(2)(B); and
                            (ii) may make a commitment described in 
                        clause (i) only--
                                    (I) if the full extent of the 
                                anticipated costs stemming from the 
                                commitment is recorded as an obligation 
                                at the time that the commitment is 
                                made; and
                                    (II) to the extent of that up-front 
                                obligation recorded in full at that 
                                time.
            (5) Sunset.--The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        activities under this subsection shall terminate on the date on 
        which the Secretary notifies Congress that the HALEU needs of 
        advanced nuclear reactor developers can be fully met by 
        commercial HALEU suppliers in the United States, as determined 
        by the Secretary, in consultation with U.S. nuclear energy 
        companies.
    (i) Domestic Sourcing Considerations.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary may only carry out an activity in connection with 1 
        or more of the Programs if--
                    (A) the activity promotes manufacturing in the 
                United States associated with uranium supply chains; or
                    (B) the activity relies on resources, materials, or 
                equipment developed or produced--
                            (i) in the United States; or
                            (ii) in a country that is an ally or 
                        partner of the United States by--
                                    (I) the government of that country;
                                    (II) an associated entity; or
                                    (III) a U.S. nuclear energy 
                                company.
            (2) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the requirements of 
        paragraph (1) with respect to an activity if the Secretary 
        determines a waiver to be necessary to achieve 1 or more of the 
        objectives described in subsection (c).
    (j) Reasonable Compensation.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out activities under this 
        section, the Secretary shall ensure that any LEU and HALEU made 
        available by the Secretary under 1 or more of the Programs is 
        subject to reasonable compensation, taking into account the 
        fair market value of the LEU or HALEU and the purposes of this 
        section.
            (2) Availability of certain funds.--
                    (A) In general.--Notwithstanding section 3302(b) of 
                title 31, United States Code, revenues received by the 
                Secretary from the sale or transfer of fuel feed 
                material acquired by the Secretary pursuant to a 
                contract entered into under clause (i) or (ii) of 
                subsection (f)(1)(A) shall--
                            (i) be deposited in the account described 
                        in subparagraph (B);
                            (ii) be available to the Secretary for 
                        carrying out the purposes of this section, to 
                        reduce the need for further appropriations for 
                        those purposes; and
                            (iii) remain available until expended.
                    (B) Revolving fund.--There is established in the 
                Treasury an account into which the revenues described 
                in subparagraph (A) shall be--
                            (i) deposited in accordance with clause (i) 
                        of that subparagraph; and
                            (ii) made available in accordance with 
                        clauses (ii) and (iii) of that subparagraph.
    (k) Nuclear Regulatory Commission.--The Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission shall prioritize and expedite consideration of any action 
related to the Programs to the extent permitted under the Atomic Energy 
Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.) and related statutes.
    (l) USEC Privatization Act.--The requirements of section 3112(d)(2) 
of the USEC Privatization Act (42 U.S.C. 2297h-10(d)(2)) shall not 
apply to activities related to the Programs.
    (m) National Security Needs.--The Secretary shall only make 
available to a member of the consortium under this section for 
commercial use or use in a demonstration project material that the 
President has determined is not necessary for national security needs 
during or prior to fiscal year 2023, subject to the condition that the 
material made available shall not include any material that the 
Secretary determines to be necessary for the National Nuclear Security 
Administration or any critical mission of the Department.
    (n) International Agreements.--This section shall be applied in a 
manner consistent with the obligations of the United States under 
international agreements.
    (o) Report on Civil Nuclear Credit Program.--Not later than 180 
days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report that 
identifies the anticipated funding requirements for the civil nuclear 
credit program described in section 40323 of the Infrastructure 
Investment and Jobs Act (42 U.S.C. 18753), taking into account--
            (1) the zero-emission nuclear power production credit 
        authorized by section 45U of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; 
        and
            (2) any increased fuel costs associated with the use of 
        domestic fuel that may arise from the implementation of that 
        program.
    (p) Supply Chain Infrastructure and Workforce Capacity Building.--
            (1) Supply chain infrastructure.--Section 10781(b)(1) of 
        Public Law 117-167 (commonly known as the ``CHIPS and Science 
        Act of 2022'') (42 U.S.C. 19351(b)(1)) is amended by striking 
        ``and demonstration of advanced nuclear reactors'' and 
        inserting ``demonstration, and deployment of advanced nuclear 
        reactors and associated supply chain infrastructure''.
            (2) Workforce capacity building.--Section 954(b) of the 
        Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16274(b)) is amended--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by striking 
                ``Graduate'';
                    (B) by striking ``graduate'' each place it appears;
                    (C) in paragraph (2)(A), by inserting ``community 
                colleges, trade schools, registered apprenticeship 
                programs, pre-apprenticeship programs,'' after 
                ``universities,'';
                    (D) in paragraph (3), by striking ``2021 through 
                2025'' and inserting ``2023 through 2027'';
                    (E) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph 
                (4); and
                    (F) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
                    ``(A) Focus areas.--In carrying out the subprogram 
                under this subsection, the Secretary may implement 
                traineeships in focus areas that, in the determination 
                of the Secretary, are necessary to support the nuclear 
                energy sector in the United States, including--
                            ``(i) research and development;
                            ``(ii) construction and operation;
                            ``(iii) associated supply chains; and
                            ``(iv) workforce training and retraining to 
                        support transitioning workforces.''.

          TITLE XXXII--DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD

SEC. 3201. AUTHORIZATION.

    There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2024, 
$47,230,000 for the operation of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety 
Board under chapter 21 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286 
et seq.).

                  TITLE XXXV--MARITIME ADMINISTRATION

SEC. 3501. MARITIME ADMINISTRATION.

    Section 109 of title 49, United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows:
``Sec. 109. Maritime Administration
    ``(a) Organization and Mission.--The Maritime Administration is an 
administration in the Department of Transportation. The mission of the 
Maritime Administration is to foster, promote, and develop the merchant 
maritime industry of the United States.
    ``(b) Maritime Administrator.--The head of the Maritime 
Administration is the Maritime Administrator, who is appointed by the 
President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The 
Administrator shall report directly to the Secretary of Transportation 
and carry out the duties prescribed by the Secretary.
    ``(c) Deputy Maritime Administrator.--The Maritime Administration 
shall have a Deputy Maritime Administrator, who is appointed in the 
competitive service by the Secretary, after consultation with the 
Administrator. The Deputy Administrator shall carry out the duties 
prescribed by the Administrator. The Deputy Administrator shall be 
Acting Administrator during the absence or disability of the 
Administrator and, unless the Secretary designates another individual, 
during a vacancy in the office of Administrator.
    ``(d) Duties and Powers Vested in Secretary.--All duties and powers 
of the Maritime Administration are vested in the Secretary.
    ``(e) Regional Offices.--The Maritime Administration shall have 
regional offices for the Atlantic, Gulf, Great Lakes, and Pacific port 
ranges, and may have other regional offices as necessary. The Secretary 
shall appoint a qualified individual as Director of each regional 
office. The Secretary shall carry out appropriate activities and 
programs of the Maritime Administration through the regional offices.
    ``(f) Interagency and Industry Relations.--The Secretary shall 
establish and maintain liaison with other agencies, and with 
representative trade organizations throughout the United States, 
concerned with the transportation of commodities by water in the export 
and import foreign commerce of the United States, for the purpose of 
securing preference to vessels of the United States for the 
transportation of those commodities.
    ``(g) Detailing Officers From Armed Forces.--To assist the 
Secretary in carrying out duties and powers relating to the Maritime 
Administration, not more than five officers of the Armed Forces may be 
detailed to the Secretary at any one time, in addition to details 
authorized by any other law. During the period of a detail, the 
Secretary shall pay the officer an amount that, when added to the 
officer's pay and allowances as an officer in the Armed Forces, makes 
the officer's total pay and allowances equal to the amount that would 
be paid to an individual performing work the Secretary considers to be 
of similar importance, difficulty, and responsibility as that performed 
by the officer during the detail.
    ``(h) Contracts, Cooperative Agreements, and Audits.--
            ``(1) Contracts and cooperative agreements.--In the same 
        manner that a private corporation may make a contract within 
        the scope of its authority under its charter, the Secretary may 
        make contracts and cooperative agreements for the United States 
        Government and disburse amounts to--
                    ``(A) carry out the Secretary's duties and powers 
                under this section, subtitle V of title 46, and all 
                other Maritime Administration programs; and
                    ``(B) protect, preserve, and improve collateral 
                held by the Secretary to secure indebtedness.
            ``(2) Audits.--The financial transactions of the Secretary 
        under paragraph (1) shall be audited by the Comptroller 
        General. The Comptroller General shall allow credit for an 
        expenditure shown to be necessary because of the nature of the 
        business activities authorized by this section or subtitle V of 
        title 46. At least once a year, the Comptroller General shall 
        report to Congress any departure by the Secretary from this 
        section or subtitle V of title 46.
    ``(i) Grant Administrative Expenses.--Except as otherwise provided 
by law, the administrative and related expenses for the administration 
of any grant programs by the Maritime Administrator may not exceed 3 
percent.
    ``(j) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        subsection, there are authorized to be appropriated such 
        amounts as may be necessary to carry out the duties and powers 
        of the Secretary relating to the Maritime Administration.
            ``(2) Limitations.--Only those amounts specifically 
        authorized by law may be appropriated for the use of the 
        Maritime Administration for--
                    ``(A) acquisition, construction, or reconstruction 
                of vessels;
                    ``(B) construction-differential subsidies incident 
                to the construction, reconstruction, or reconditioning 
                of vessels;
                    ``(C) costs of national defense features;
                    ``(D) payments of obligations incurred for 
                operating-differential subsidies;
                    ``(E) expenses necessary for research and 
                development activities, including reimbursement of the 
                Vessel Operations Revolving Fund for losses resulting 
                from expenses of experimental vessel operations;
                    ``(F) the Vessel Operations Revolving Fund;
                    ``(G) National Defense Reserve Fleet expenses;
                    ``(H) expenses necessary to carry out part B of 
                subtitle V of title 46; and
                    ``(I) other operations and training expenses 
                related to the development of waterborne transportation 
                systems, the use of waterborne transportation systems, 
                and general administration.''.

                       DIVISION D--FUNDING TABLES

SEC. 4001. AUTHORIZATION OF AMOUNTS IN FUNDING TABLES.

    (a) In General.--Whenever a funding table in this division 
specifies a dollar amount authorized for a project, program, or 
activity, the obligation and expenditure of the specified dollar amount 
for the project, program, or activity is hereby authorized, subject to 
the availability of appropriations.
    (b) Merit-based Decisions.--A decision to commit, obligate, or 
expend funds with or to a specific entity on the basis of a dollar 
amount authorized pursuant to subsection (a) shall--
            (1) be based on merit-based selection procedures in 
        accordance with the requirements of sections 3201 and 4024 of 
        title 10, United States Code, or on competitive procedures; and
            (2) comply with other applicable provisions of law.
    (c) Relationship to Transfer and Programming Authority.--An amount 
specified in the funding tables in this division may be transferred or 
reprogrammed under a transfer or reprogramming authority provided by 
another provision of this Act or by other law. The transfer or 
reprogramming of an amount specified in such funding tables shall not 
count against a ceiling on such transfers or reprogrammings under 
section 1001 of this Act or any other provision of law, unless such 
transfer or reprogramming would move funds between appropriation 
accounts.
    (d) Applicability to Classified Annex.--This section applies to any 
classified annex that accompanies this Act.
    (e) Oral or Written Communications.--No oral or written 
communication concerning any amount specified in the funding tables in 
this division shall supersede the requirements of this section.

                         TITLE XLI--PROCUREMENT

SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
            SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT  (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              FY 2024         Senate
  Line                 Item                   Request       Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
          AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, ARMY
          FIXED WING
      3   FUTURE UAS FAMILY.............          53,453          53,453
      5   SMALL UNMANNED AIRCRAFT                 20,769          20,769
           SYSTEMS......................
          ROTARY
      6   AH-64 APACHE BLOCK IIIA REMAN.         718,578         718,578
      7   AH-64 APACHE BLOCK IIIA REMAN.         110,360         110,360
      8   UH-60 BLACKHAWK M MODEL (MYP).         668,258         668,258
      9   UH-60 BLACKHAWK M MODEL (MYP).          92,494          92,494
     10   UH-60 BLACK HAWK L AND V               153,196         153,196
           MODELS.......................
     11   CH-47 HELICOPTER..............         202,487         202,487
     12   CH-47 HELICOPTER..............          18,936          18,936
          MODIFICATION OF AIRCRAFT
     13   MQ-1 PAYLOAD..................          13,650          13,650
     14   GRAY EAGLE MODS2..............          14,959          14,959
     16   AH-64 MODS....................         113,127         113,127
     17   CH-47 CARGO HELICOPTER MODS             20,689          20,689
           (MYP)........................
     22   UTILITY HELICOPTER MODS.......          35,879          35,879
     23   NETWORK AND MISSION PLAN......          32,418          32,418
     24   COMMS, NAV SURVEILLANCE.......          74,912          74,912
     25   DEGRADED VISUAL ENVIRONMENT...          16,838          16,838
     26   AVIATION ASSURED PNT..........          67,383          67,383
     27   GATM ROLLUP...................           8,924           8,924
     29   UAS MODS......................           2,258           2,258
          GROUND SUPPORT AVIONICS
     30   AIRCRAFT SURVIVABILITY                 161,731         161,731
           EQUIPMENT....................
     31   SURVIVABILITY CM..............           6,526           6,526
     32   CMWS..........................          72,041          72,041
     33   COMMON INFRARED                        261,384         261,384
           COUNTERMEASURES (CIRCM)......
          OTHER SUPPORT
     34   COMMON GROUND EQUIPMENT.......          25,752          25,752
     35   AIRCREW INTEGRATED SYSTEMS....          22,097          22,097
     36   AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL...........          21,216          21,216
     37   LAUNCHER, 2.75 ROCKET.........           2,125           2,125
          TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,          3,012,440       3,012,440
           ARMY.........................
 
          MISSILE PROCUREMENT, ARMY
          SURFACE-TO-AIR MISSILE SYSTEM
      1   LOWER TIER AIR AND MISSILE               6,625           6,625
           DEFENSE (AMD) SEN............
      3   M-SHORAD--PROCUREMENT.........         400,697         400,697
      4   MSE MISSILE...................       1,212,832       1,212,832
      6   PRECISION STRIKE MISSILE               384,071         384,071
           (PRSM).......................
      7   INDIRECT FIRE PROTECTION               313,189         313,189
           CAPABILITY INC 2-I...........
      8   MID-RANGE CAPABILITY (MRC)....         169,519         169,519
          AIR-TO-SURFACE MISSILE SYSTEM
      9   HELLFIRE SYS SUMMARY..........          21,976          21,976
     10   JOINT AIR-TO-GROUND MSLS               303,409         303,409
           (JAGM).......................
     12   LONG-RANGE HYPERSONIC WEAPON..         156,821         156,821
          ANTI-TANK/ASSAULT MISSILE SYS
     13   JAVELIN (AAWS-M) SYSTEM                199,509         199,509
           SUMMARY......................
     14   TOW 2 SYSTEM SUMMARY..........         120,475         120,475
     15   GUIDED MLRS ROCKET (GMLRS)....         886,367         886,367
     16   GUIDED MLRS ROCKET (GMLRS)....          55,913          55,913
     17   MLRS REDUCED RANGE PRACTICE             10,334          10,334
           ROCKETS (RRPR)...............
     18   HIGH MOBILITY ARTILLERY ROCKET         179,230         179,230
           SYSTEM (HIMARS...............
     19   ARMY TACTICAL MSL SYS                    7,307           7,307
           (ATACMS)--SYS SUM............
          MODIFICATIONS
     21   PATRIOT MODS..................         212,247         212,247
     22   STINGER MODS..................          36,484          36,484
     23   AVENGER MODS..................          22,274          22,274
     25   MLRS MODS.....................         168,198         168,198
     26   HIMARS MODIFICATIONS..........          76,266          76,266
          SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
     27   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.......           6,573           6,573
          SUPPORT EQUIPMENT & FACILITIES
     28   AIR DEFENSE TARGETS...........          11,701          11,701
          TOTAL MISSILE PROCUREMENT,           4,962,017       4,962,017
           ARMY.........................
 
          PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV, ARMY
          TRACKED COMBAT VEHICLES
      1   ARMORED MULTI PURPOSE VEHICLE          554,777         554,777
           (AMPV).......................
      3   MOBILE PROTECTED FIREPOWER....         394,635         394,635
          MODIFICATION OF TRACKED COMBAT
           VEHICLES
      4   STRYKER UPGRADE...............         614,282         614,282
      5   BRADLEY FIRE SUPPORT TEAM                5,232           5,232
           (BFIST) VEHICLE..............
      6   BRADLEY PROGRAM (MOD).........         158,274         158,274
      7   M109 FOV MODIFICATIONS........          90,986          90,986
      8   PALADIN INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT          469,152         469,152
           (PIM)........................
      9   IMPROVED RECOVERY VEHICLE (M88          41,058          41,058
           HERCULES)....................
     12   JOINT ASSAULT BRIDGE..........         159,804         159,804
     13   ABRAMS UPGRADE PROGRAM........         697,883         697,883
     14   ABRAMS UPGRADE PROGRAM........         102,440         102,440
          WEAPONS & OTHER COMBAT
           VEHICLES
     16   PERSONAL DEFENSE WEAPON (ROLL)             510             510
     17   M240 MEDIUM MACHINE GUN                    425             425
           (7.62MM).....................
     19   MACHINE GUN, CAL .50 M2 ROLL..           3,420           3,420
     20   MORTAR SYSTEMS................           8,013           8,013
     21   LOCATION & AZIMUTH                       3,174           3,174
           DETERMINATION SYSTEM (LADS...
     22   XM320 GRENADE LAUNCHER MODULE           14,143          14,143
           (GLM)........................
     23   PRECISION SNIPER RIFLE........           5,248           5,248
     24   CARBINE.......................             571             571
     25   NEXT GENERATION SQUAD WEAPON..         292,850         292,850
     26   HANDGUN.......................              32              32
          MOD OF WEAPONS AND OTHER
           COMBAT VEH
     28   M777 MODS.....................          18,920          18,920
     31   M119 MODIFICATIONS............          13,097          13,097
     32   MORTAR MODIFICATION...........             423             423
          SUPPORT EQUIPMENT & FACILITIES
     33   ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M (WOCV-             1,148           1,148
           WTCV)........................
     34   PRODUCTION BASE SUPPORT (WOCV-         115,024         115,024
           WTCV)........................
          TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV,          3,765,521       3,765,521
           ARMY.........................
 
          PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION,
           ARMY
          SMALL/MEDIUM CAL AMMUNITION
      1   CTG, 5.56MM, ALL TYPES........          90,853          90,853
      2   CTG, 7.62MM, ALL TYPES........          65,370          65,370
      3   NEXT GENERATION SQUAD WEAPON           191,244         191,244
           AMMUNITION...................
      4   CTG, HANDGUN, ALL TYPES.......           6,597           6,597
      5   CTG, .50 CAL, ALL TYPES.......          41,534          41,534
      6   CTG, 20MM, ALL TYPES..........           7,925           7,925
      7   CTG, 25MM, ALL TYPES..........          38,760          38,760
      8   CTG, 30MM, ALL TYPES..........         107,805         107,805
      9   CTG, 40MM, ALL TYPES..........         148,970         148,970
     10   CTG, 50MM, ALL TYPES..........          28,000          28,000
          MORTAR AMMUNITION
     11   60MM MORTAR, ALL TYPES........          35,160          35,160
     12   81MM MORTAR, ALL TYPES........          40,562          40,562
     13   120MM MORTAR, ALL TYPES.......         106,784         106,784
          TANK AMMUNITION
     14   CARTRIDGES, TANK, 105MM AND            300,368         300,368
           120MM, ALL TYPES.............
          ARTILLERY AMMUNITION
     15   ARTILLERY CARTRIDGES, 75MM &            21,298          21,298
           105MM, ALL TYPES.............
     16   ARTILLERY PROJECTILE, 155MM,           150,839         150,839
           ALL TYPES....................
     18   PRECISION ARTILLERY MUNITIONS.          96,406          96,406
     19   ARTILLERY PROPELLANTS, FUZES           172,947         172,947
           AND PRIMERS, ALL.............
          MINES
     20   MINES & CLEARING CHARGES, ALL           71,182          71,182
           TYPES........................
     21   CLOSE TERRAIN SHAPING OBSTACLE          55,374          55,374
          ROCKETS
     22   SHOULDER LAUNCHED MUNITIONS,            18,630          18,630
           ALL TYPES....................
     23   ROCKET, HYDRA 70, ALL TYPES...          87,293          87,293
          OTHER AMMUNITION
     24   CAD/PAD, ALL TYPES............           6,564           6,564
     25   DEMOLITION MUNITIONS, ALL               24,238          24,238
           TYPES........................
     26   GRENADES, ALL TYPES...........          48,374          48,374
     27   SIGNALS, ALL TYPES............          23,252          23,252
     28   SIMULATORS, ALL TYPES.........          11,309          11,309
          MISCELLANEOUS
     30   AMMO COMPONENTS, ALL TYPES....           3,976           3,976
     31   NON-LETHAL AMMUNITION, ALL               3,281           3,281
           TYPES........................
     32   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION              17,436          17,436
           (AMMO).......................
     33   AMMUNITION PECULIAR EQUIPMENT.          13,133          13,133
     34   FIRST DESTINATION                       18,068          18,068
           TRANSPORTATION (AMMO)........
     35   CLOSEOUT LIABILITIES..........             102             102
          PRODUCTION BASE SUPPORT
     36   INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES.........         726,135         726,135
     37   CONVENTIONAL MUNITIONS                 183,752         183,752
           DEMILITARIZATION.............
     38   ARMS INITIATIVE...............           4,057           4,057
          TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF                 2,967,578       2,967,578
           AMMUNITION, ARMY.............
 
          OTHER PROCUREMENT, ARMY
          TACTICAL VEHICLES
      1   SEMITRAILERS, FLATBED:........          22,751          22,751
      2   SEMITRAILERS, TANKERS.........          40,359          40,359
      3   HI MOB MULTI-PURP WHLD VEH              25,904          25,904
           (HMMWV)......................
      4   GROUND MOBILITY VEHICLES (GMV)          36,223          36,223
      6   JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE           839,413         839,413
           FAMILY OF VEHICL.............
      7   TRUCK, DUMP, 20T (CCE)........          20,075          20,075
      8   FAMILY OF MEDIUM TACTICAL VEH          110,734         110,734
           (FMTV).......................
      9   FAMILY OF COLD WEATHER ALL-             28,745          28,745
           TERRAIN VEHICLE (C...........
     10   FIRETRUCKS & ASSOCIATED                 55,340          55,340
           FIREFIGHTING EQUIP...........
     11   FAMILY OF HEAVY TACTICAL                66,428          66,428
           VEHICLES (FHTV)..............
     12   PLS ESP.......................          51,868          51,868
     14   TACTICAL WHEELED VEHICLE                 3,792           3,792
           PROTECTION KITS..............
     15   MODIFICATION OF IN SVC EQUIP..          80,326          80,326
          NON-TACTICAL VEHICLES
     16   PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES...           2,203           2,203
     17   NONTACTICAL VEHICLES, OTHER...           8,246           8,246
          COMM--JOINT COMMUNICATIONS
     18   SIGNAL MODERNIZATION PROGRAM..         161,585         161,585
     19   TACTICAL NETWORK TECHNOLOGY            358,646         358,646
           MOD IN SVC...................
     20   DISASTER INCIDENT RESPONSE                 254             254
           COMMS TERMINAL (DI...........
     21   JCSE EQUIPMENT (USRDECOM).....           5,097           5,097
          COMM--SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
     24   DEFENSE ENTERPRISE WIDEBAND            101,181         101,181
           SATCOM SYSTEMS...............
     25   TRANSPORTABLE TACTICAL COMMAND          54,849          54,849
           COMMUNICATIONS...............
     26   SHF TERM......................          41,634          41,634
     27   ASSURED POSITIONING,                   202,370         202,370
           NAVIGATION AND TIMING........
     28   EHF SATELLITE COMMUNICATION...          19,122          19,122
     30   GLOBAL BRDCST SVC--GBS........             531             531
          COMM--C3 SYSTEM
     31   COE TACTICAL SERVER                     77,999          77,999
           INFRASTRUCTURE (TSI).........
          COMM--COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS
     32   HANDHELD MANPACK SMALL FORM            765,109         765,109
           FIT (HMS)....................
     33   ARMY LINK 16 SYSTEMS..........          60,767          60,767
     35   UNIFIED COMMAND SUITE.........          18,999          18,999
     36   COTS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT.         492,001         492,001
     37   FAMILY OF MED COMM FOR COMBAT            1,374           1,374
           CASUALTY CARE................
     38   ARMY COMMUNICATIONS &                   52,485          52,485
           ELECTRONICS..................
          COMM--INTELLIGENCE COMM
     39   CI AUTOMATION ARCHITECTURE-             16,767          16,767
           INTEL........................
     41   MULTI-DOMAIN INTELLIGENCE.....         119,989         119,989
          INFORMATION SECURITY
     42   INFORMATION SYSTEM SECURITY                701             701
           PROGRAM-ISSP.................
     43   COMMUNICATIONS SECURITY                159,712         159,712
           (COMSEC).....................
     44   DEFENSIVE CYBER OPERATIONS....          13,848          13,848
     45   INSIDER THREAT PROGRAM--UNIT             1,502           1,502
           ACTIVITY MONITO..............
     47   BIOMETRIC ENABLING CAPABILITY              453             453
           (BEC)........................
          COMM--LONG HAUL COMMUNICATIONS
     49   BASE SUPPORT COMMUNICATIONS...          23,278          23,278
          COMM--BASE COMMUNICATIONS
     50   INFORMATION SYSTEMS...........          32,608          32,608
     51   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT                     4,949           4,949
           MODERNIZATION PROGRAM........
     52   INSTALLATION INFO                      243,011         243,011
           INFRASTRUCTURE MOD PROGRAM...
          ELECT EQUIP--TACT INT REL ACT
           (TIARA)
     55   JTT/CIBS-M....................           8,543           8,543
     56   TERRESTRIAL LAYER SYSTEMS               85,486          85,486
           (TLS)........................
     58   DCGS-A-INTEL..................           2,980           2,980
     60   TROJAN........................          30,649          30,649
     61   MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP (INTEL               4,169           4,169
           SPT).........................
     62   BIOMETRIC TACTICAL COLLECTION              932             932
           DEVICES......................
          ELECT EQUIP--ELECTRONIC
           WARFARE (EW)
     63   EW PLANNING & MANAGEMENT TOOLS          21,278          21,278
           (EWPMT)......................
     64   AIR VIGILANCE (AV)............           6,641           6,641
     65   MULTI-FUNCTION ELECTRONIC               15,941          15,941
           WARFARE (MFEW) SYST..........
     67   COUNTERINTELLIGENCE/SECURITY            22,833          22,833
           COUNTERMEASURES..............
     68   CI MODERNIZATION..............             434             434
          ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL SURV.
           (TAC SURV)
     69   SENTINEL MODS.................         161,886         161,886
     70   NIGHT VISION DEVICES..........         141,143         141,143
     71   SMALL TACTICAL OPTICAL RIFLE            15,484          15,484
           MOUNTED MLRF.................
     73   FAMILY OF WEAPON SIGHTS (FWS).         185,634         185,634
     74   ENHANCED PORTABLE INDUCTIVE              3,652           3,652
           ARTILLERY FUZE SE............
     75   FORWARD LOOKING INFRARED                20,438          20,438
           (IFLIR)......................
     76   COUNTER SMALL UNMANNED AERIAL          365,376         365,376
           SYSTEM (C-SUAS)..............
     77   JOINT BATTLE COMMAND--PLATFORM         215,290         215,290
           (JBC-P)......................
     78   JOINT EFFECTS TARGETING SYSTEM           8,932           8,932
           (JETS).......................
     79   COMPUTER BALLISTICS: LHMBC               2,965           2,965
           XM32.........................
     80   MORTAR FIRE CONTROL SYSTEM....           8,024           8,024
     81   MORTAR FIRE CONTROL SYSTEMS              7,399           7,399
           MODIFICATIONS................
     82   COUNTERFIRE RADARS............          99,782          99,782
          ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL C2
           SYSTEMS
     83   ARMY COMMAND POST INTEGRATED            78,512          78,512
           INFRASTRUCTURE (.............
     84   FIRE SUPPORT C2 FAMILY........          10,052          10,052
     85   AIR & MSL DEFENSE PLANNING &            68,892          68,892
           CONTROL SYS..................
     86   IAMD BATTLE COMMAND SYSTEM....         412,556         412,556
     87   LIFE CYCLE SOFTWARE SUPPORT              4,270           4,270
           (LCSS).......................
     88   NETWORK MANAGEMENT                      37,194          37,194
           INITIALIZATION AND SERVICE...
     89   GLOBAL COMBAT SUPPORT SYSTEM-            1,987           1,987
           ARMY (GCSS-A)................
     90   INTEGRATED PERSONNEL AND PAY             5,318           5,318
           SYSTEM-ARMY (IPP.............
     91   MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIPMENT                  4,997           4,997
           (ENFIRE).....................
          ELECT EQUIP--AUTOMATION
     92   ARMY TRAINING MODERNIZATION...          10,130          10,130
     93   AUTOMATED DATA PROCESSING               61,489          61,489
           EQUIP........................
     94   ACCESSIONS INFORMATION                   4,198           4,198
           ENVIRONMENT (AIE)............
     96   HIGH PERF COMPUTING MOD PGM             76,053          76,053
           (HPCMP)......................
     97   CONTRACT WRITING SYSTEM.......           6,061           6,061
     98   CSS COMMUNICATIONS............          56,804          56,804
          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
   9999   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........           1,781           1,781
          CHEMICAL DEFENSIVE EQUIPMENT
    102   BASE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (BDS)....          70,781          70,781
    103   CBRN DEFENSE..................          63,198          63,198
          BRIDGING EQUIPMENT
    104   TACTICAL BRIDGING.............           1,157           1,157
    105   TACTICAL BRIDGE, FLOAT-RIBBON.          82,228          82,228
    106   BRIDGE SUPPLEMENTAL SET.......           4,414           4,414
          ENGINEER (NON-CONSTRUCTION)
           EQUIPMENT
    110   ROBOTICS AND APPLIQUE SYSTEMS.          68,893          68,893
    112   FAMILY OF BOATS AND MOTORS....           4,785           4,785
          COMBAT SERVICE SUPPORT
           EQUIPMENT
    113   HEATERS AND ECU'S.............           7,617           7,617
    115   PERSONNEL RECOVERY SUPPORT               5,356           5,356
           SYSTEM (PRSS)................
    116   GROUND SOLDIER SYSTEM.........         167,129         167,129
    117   MOBILE SOLDIER POWER..........          15,967          15,967
    118   FORCE PROVIDER................          34,200          34,200
    120   CARGO AERIAL DEL & PERSONNEL            45,792          45,792
           PARACHUTE SYSTEM.............
    121   FAMILY OF ENGR COMBAT AND               12,118          12,118
           CONSTRUCTION SETS............
          PETROLEUM EQUIPMENT
    123   QUALITY SURVEILLANCE EQUIPMENT           2,507           2,507
    124   DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS,                   40,989          40,989
           PETROLEUM & WATER............
          MEDICAL EQUIPMENT
    125   COMBAT SUPPORT MEDICAL........          86,829          86,829
          MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
    126   MOBILE MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT            17,287          17,287
           SYSTEMS......................
          CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
    128   TRACTOR, FULL TRACKED.........          29,878          29,878
    129   ALL TERRAIN CRANES............          27,725          27,725
    131   FAMILY OF DIVER SUPPORT                  1,811           1,811
           EQUIPMENT....................
    132   CONST EQUIP ESP...............           8,898           8,898
          RAIL FLOAT CONTAINERIZATION
           EQUIPMENT
    133   ARMY WATERCRAFT ESP...........          30,592          30,592
    134   MANEUVER SUPPORT VESSEL (MSV).         149,449         149,449
          GENERATORS
    136   GENERATORS AND ASSOCIATED               78,364          78,364
           EQUIP........................
    137   TACTICAL ELECTRIC POWER                 11,088          11,088
           RECAPITALIZATION.............
          MATERIAL HANDLING EQUIPMENT
    138   FAMILY OF FORKLIFTS...........          12,982          12,982
          TRAINING EQUIPMENT
    139   COMBAT TRAINING CENTERS                 56,619          56,619
           SUPPORT......................
    140   TRAINING DEVICES, NONSYSTEM...         226,379         226,379
    141   SYNTHETIC TRAINING ENVIRONMENT         234,965         234,965
           (STE)........................
    142   GAMING TECHNOLOGY IN SUPPORT             9,698           9,698
           OF ARMY TRAINING.............
          TEST MEASURE AND DIG EQUIPMENT
           (TMD)
    143   INTEGRATED FAMILY OF TEST               36,149          36,149
           EQUIPMENT (IFTE).............
    144   TEST EQUIPMENT MODERNIZATION            32,623          32,623
           (TEMOD)......................
          OTHER SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
    145   PHYSICAL SECURITY SYSTEMS              132,739         132,739
           (OPA3).......................
    146   BASE LEVEL COMMON EQUIPMENT...          34,460          34,460
    147   MODIFICATION OF IN-SVC                  35,239          35,239
           EQUIPMENT (OPA-3)............
    148   BUILDING, PRE-FAB, RELOCATABLE          31,011          31,011
    149   SPECIAL EQUIPMENT FOR TEST AND          52,481          52,481
           EVALUATION...................
          OPA2
    151   INITIAL SPARES--C&E...........           9,169           9,169
          TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, ARMY.       8,672,979       8,672,979
 
          AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, NAVY
          COMBAT AIRCRAFT
      1   F/A-18E/F (FIGHTER) HORNET....          41,329          41,329
      2   JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER CV.......       2,410,569       2,410,569
      3   JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER CV.......         189,425         189,425
      4   JSF STOVL.....................       2,126,317       2,126,317
      5   JSF STOVL.....................         193,125         193,125
      6   CH-53K (HEAVY LIFT)...........       1,698,050       1,698,050
      7   CH-53K (HEAVY LIFT)...........         456,567         456,567
      8   V-22 (MEDIUM LIFT)............          27,216          27,216
      9   H-1 UPGRADES (UH-1Y/AH-1Z)....           4,292           4,292
     10   P-8A POSEIDON.................          31,257          31,257
     11   E-2D ADV HAWKEYE..............         182,817         182,817
          TRAINER AIRCRAFT
     13   MULTI-ENGINE TRAINING SYSTEM           289,141         289,141
           (METS).......................
          OTHER AIRCRAFT
     15   KC-130J.......................         241,291         241,291
     17   MQ-4 TRITON...................         416,010         416,010
     19   MQ-8 UAV......................           1,546           1,546
     21   MQ-25.........................         545,697         545,697
     22   MQ-25.........................          50,576          50,576
     23   MARINE GROUP 5 UAS............          89,563          89,563
          MODIFICATION OF AIRCRAFT
     24   F-18 A-D UNIQUE...............         116,551         116,551
     25   F-18E/F AND EA-18G                     605,416         605,416
           MODERNIZATION AND SUSTAINM...
     26   MARINE GROUP 5 UAS SERIES.....          98,063          98,063
     27   AEA SYSTEMS...................          24,110          24,110
     28   AV-8 SERIES...................          22,829          22,829
     29   INFRARED SEARCH AND TRACK              179,193         179,193
           (IRST).......................
     30   ADVERSARY.....................          69,336          69,336
     31   F-18 SERIES...................         640,236         640,236
     32   H-53 SERIES...................          41,414          41,414
     33   MH-60 SERIES..................         106,495         106,495
     34   H-1 SERIES....................         114,284         114,284
     35   EP-3 SERIES...................           8,548           8,548
     36   E-2 SERIES....................         183,246         183,246
     37   TRAINER A/C SERIES............          16,376          16,376
     39   C-130 SERIES..................         198,220         198,220
     40   FEWSG.........................             651             651
     41   CARGO/TRANSPORT A/C SERIES....          13,930          13,930
     42   E-6 SERIES....................         164,571         164,571
     43   EXECUTIVE HELICOPTERS SERIES..          60,498          60,498
     44   T-45 SERIES...................         170,357         170,357
     45   POWER PLANT CHANGES...........          21,079          21,079
     46   JPATS SERIES..................          28,005          28,005
     48   COMMON ECM EQUIPMENT..........          53,614          53,614
     49   COMMON AVIONICS CHANGES.......         136,199         136,199
     50   COMMON DEFENSIVE WEAPON SYSTEM           6,585           6,585
     51   ID SYSTEMS....................          13,085          13,085
     52   P-8 SERIES....................         316,168         316,168
     53   MAGTF EW FOR AVIATION.........          24,901          24,901
     54   MQ-8 SERIES...................          14,700          14,700
     55   V-22 (TILT/ROTOR ACFT) OSPREY.         215,997         215,997
     56   NEXT GENERATION JAMMER (NGJ)..         426,396         426,396
     57   F-35 STOVL SERIES.............         311,921         311,921
     58   F-35 CV SERIES................         166,909         166,909
     59   QRC...........................          28,206          28,206
     60   MQ-4 SERIES...................          93,951          93,951
          AIRCRAFT SPARES AND REPAIR
           PARTS
     62   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.......       2,451,244       2,451,244
          AIRCRAFT SUPPORT EQUIP &
           FACILITIES
     63   COMMON GROUND EQUIPMENT.......         566,156         566,156
     64   AIRCRAFT INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES         133,815         133,815
     65   WAR CONSUMABLES...............          44,632          44,632
     66   OTHER PRODUCTION CHARGES......          49,907          49,907
     67   SPECIAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.....         404,178         404,178
          TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,         17,336,760      17,336,760
           NAVY.........................
 
          WEAPONS PROCUREMENT, NAVY
          MODIFICATION OF MISSILES
      1   CONVENTIONAL PROMPT STRIKE....         341,434         341,434
      2   TRIDENT II MODS...............       1,284,705       1,284,705
          SUPPORT EQUIPMENT & FACILITIES
      3   MISSILE INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES.           7,954           7,954
          STRATEGIC MISSILES
      4   TOMAHAWK......................          72,908          72,908
          TACTICAL MISSILES
      5   AMRAAM........................         439,153         439,153
      6   SIDEWINDER....................          78,165          78,165
      7   STANDARD MISSILE..............         969,525         969,525
      8   STANDARD MISSILE..............         227,320         227,320
      9   SMALL DIAMETER BOMB II........          65,863          65,863
     10   RAM...........................         114,896         114,896
     11   JOINT AIR GROUND MISSILE                79,292          79,292
           (JAGM).......................
     12   HELLFIRE......................           6,923           6,923
     13   AERIAL TARGETS................         176,588         176,588
     14   OTHER MISSILE SUPPORT.........           3,687           3,687
     15   LRASM.........................         639,636         639,636
     16   NAVAL STRIKE MISSILE (NSM)....          29,925          29,925
     17   NAVAL STRIKE MISSILE (NSM)....           5,755           5,755
          MODIFICATION OF MISSILES
     18   TOMAHAWK MODS.................         540,944         540,944
     19   ESSM..........................         290,129         290,129
     20   AARGM-ER......................         162,429         162,429
     21   AARGM-ER......................          33,273          33,273
     22   STANDARD MISSILES MODS........          89,255          89,255
          SUPPORT EQUIPMENT & FACILITIES
     23   WEAPONS INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES.           2,037           2,037
          ORDNANCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
     25   ORDNANCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT....         208,154         208,154
          TORPEDOES AND RELATED EQUIP
     26   SSTD..........................           4,830           4,830
     27   MK-48 TORPEDO.................         308,497         308,497
     28   ASW TARGETS...................          14,817          14,817
          MOD OF TORPEDOES AND RELATED
           EQUIP
     29   MK-54 TORPEDO MODS............         104,086         104,086
     30   MK-48 TORPEDO ADCAP MODS......          20,714          20,714
     31   MARITIME MINES................          58,800          58,800
          SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
     32   TORPEDO SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.....         133,187         133,187
     33   ASW RANGE SUPPORT.............           4,146           4,146
          DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION
     34   FIRST DESTINATION                        5,811           5,811
           TRANSPORTATION...............
          GUNS AND GUN MOUNTS
     35   SMALL ARMS AND WEAPONS........          14,165          14,165
          MODIFICATION OF GUNS AND GUN
           MOUNTS
     36   CIWS MODS.....................           4,088           4,088
     37   COAST GUARD WEAPONS...........          55,172          55,172
     38   GUN MOUNT MODS................          82,682          82,682
     39   LCS MODULE WEAPONS............           3,264           3,264
     40   AIRBORNE MINE NEUTRALIZATION            14,357          14,357
           SYSTEMS......................
          SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
     42   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.......         177,819         177,819
          TOTAL WEAPONS PROCUREMENT,           6,876,385       6,876,385
           NAVY.........................
 
          PROCUREMENT OF AMMO, NAVY & MC
          NAVY AMMUNITION
      1   GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS.........          43,519          43,519
      2   JDAM..........................          73,689          73,689
      3   AIRBORNE ROCKETS, ALL TYPES...          67,423          67,423
      4   MACHINE GUN AMMUNITION........          11,862          11,862
      5   PRACTICE BOMBS................          52,481          52,481
      6   CARTRIDGES & CART ACTUATED              72,426          72,426
           DEVICES......................
      7   AIR EXPENDABLE COUNTERMEASURES         104,529         104,529
      8   JATOS.........................           7,433           7,433
      9   5 INCH/54 GUN AMMUNITION......          30,871          30,871
     10   INTERMEDIATE CALIBER GUN                41,261          41,261
           AMMUNITION...................
     11   OTHER SHIP GUN AMMUNITION.....          44,044          44,044
     12   SMALL ARMS & LANDING PARTY              48,478          48,478
           AMMO.........................
     13   PYROTECHNIC AND DEMOLITION....           9,521           9,521
     14   AMMUNITION LESS THAN $5                  1,679           1,679
           MILLION......................
     15   EXPEDITIONARY LOITERING                249,575         249,575
           MUNITIONS....................
          MARINE CORPS AMMUNITION
     16   MORTARS.......................          61,274          61,274
     17   DIRECT SUPPORT MUNITIONS......          73,338          73,338
     18   INFANTRY WEAPONS AMMUNITION...         178,240         178,240
     19   COMBAT SUPPORT MUNITIONS......          15,897          15,897
     20   AMMO MODERNIZATION............          17,941          17,941
     21   ARTILLERY MUNITIONS...........          82,452          82,452
     22   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION....           5,340           5,340
          TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMO,           1,293,273       1,293,273
           NAVY & MC....................
 
          SHIPBUILDING AND CONVERSION,
           NAVY
          FLEET BALLISTIC MISSILE SHIPS
      1   OHIO REPLACEMENT SUBMARINE....       2,443,598       2,443,598
      2   OHIO REPLACEMENT SUBMARINE....       3,390,734       3,390,734
          OTHER WARSHIPS
      3   CARRIER REPLACEMENT PROGRAM...       1,115,296       1,115,296
      4   CVN-81........................         800,492         800,492
      5   VIRGINIA CLASS SUBMARINE......       7,129,965       7,129,965
      6   VIRGINIA CLASS SUBMARINE......       3,215,539       3,215,539
      8   CVN REFUELING OVERHAULS.......         817,646         817,646
      9   DDG 1000......................         410,400         410,400
     10   DDG-51........................       4,199,179       4,199,179
     11   DDG-51........................         284,035         284,035
     13   FFG-FRIGATE...................       2,173,698       2,173,698
          AMPHIBIOUS SHIPS
     14   LPD FLIGHT II.................               0       1,863,000
          Program increase for LPD-33--                      [1,863,000]
           USMC UFR.....................
     18   LHA REPLACEMENT...............       1,830,149       1,830,149
          AUXILIARIES, CRAFT AND PRIOR
           YR PROGRAM COST
     21   AS SUBMARINE TENDER...........       1,733,234       1,733,234
     22   TAO FLEET OILER...............         815,420         815,420
     25   LCU 1700......................          62,532          62,532
     26   OUTFITTING....................         557,365         557,365
     28   SERVICE CRAFT.................          63,815          63,815
     29   AUXILIARY PERSONNEL LIGHTER...               0          72,000
          Additional APL-67 class                               [72,000]
           berthing barge...............
     30   LCAC SLEP.....................          15,286          15,286
     31   AUXILIARY VESSELS (USED                142,008         142,008
           SEALIFT).....................
     32   COMPLETION OF PY SHIPBUILDING        1,648,559       1,648,559
           PROGRAMS.....................
          TOTAL SHIPBUILDING AND              32,848,950      34,783,950
           CONVERSION, NAVY.............
 
          OTHER PROCUREMENT, NAVY
          SHIP PROPULSION EQUIPMENT
      1   SURFACE POWER EQUIPMENT.......          14,003          14,003
          GENERATORS
      2   SURFACE COMBATANT HM&E........         105,441         105,441
          NAVIGATION EQUIPMENT
      3   OTHER NAVIGATION EQUIPMENT....         110,286         110,286
          OTHER SHIPBOARD EQUIPMENT
      4   SUB PERISCOPE, IMAGING AND             262,951         262,951
           SUPT EQUIP PROG..............
      5   DDG MOD.......................         628,532         628,532
      6   FIREFIGHTING EQUIPMENT........          34,782          34,782
      7   COMMAND AND CONTROL                      2,458           2,458
           SWITCHBOARD..................
      8   LHA/LHD MIDLIFE...............         104,369         104,369
      9   LCC 19/20 EXTENDED SERVICE              10,529          10,529
           LIFE PROGRAM.................
     10   POLLUTION CONTROL EQUIPMENT...          23,272          23,272
     11   SUBMARINE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT...         112,526         112,526
     12   VIRGINIA CLASS SUPPORT                  32,076          32,076
           EQUIPMENT....................
     13   LCS CLASS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT...          18,832          18,832
     14   SUBMARINE BATTERIES...........          28,221          28,221
     15   LPD CLASS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT...          91,890          91,890
     16   DDG 1000 CLASS SUPPORT                 232,124         232,124
           EQUIPMENT....................
     17   STRATEGIC PLATFORM SUPPORT              25,058          25,058
           EQUIP........................
     18   DSSP EQUIPMENT................           4,623           4,623
     20   LCAC..........................          10,794          10,794
     21   UNDERWATER EOD EQUIPMENT......          19,549          19,549
     22   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION....          86,001          86,001
     23   CHEMICAL WARFARE DETECTORS....           3,288           3,288
          REACTOR PLANT EQUIPMENT
     24   SHIP MAINTENANCE, REPAIR AND         2,746,313       2,746,313
           MODERNIZATION................
     25   REACTOR POWER UNITS...........           2,016           2,016
     26   REACTOR COMPONENTS............         390,148         390,148
          OCEAN ENGINEERING
     27   DIVING AND SALVAGE EQUIPMENT..          18,086          18,086
          SMALL BOATS
     28   STANDARD BOATS................          74,963          74,963
          PRODUCTION FACILITIES
           EQUIPMENT
     29   OPERATING FORCES IPE..........         187,495         187,495
          OTHER SHIP SUPPORT
     30   LCS COMMON MISSION MODULES              49,060          49,060
           EQUIPMENT....................
     31   LCS MCM MISSION MODULES.......          93,961          93,961
     33   LCS SUW MISSION MODULES.......          12,102          12,102
     34   LCS IN-SERVICE MODERNIZATION..         171,704         171,704
     35   SMALL & MEDIUM UUV............          61,951          61,951
          LOGISTIC SUPPORT
     36   LSD MIDLIFE & MODERNIZATION...           7,594           7,594
          SHIP SONARS
     37   SPQ-9B RADAR..................           7,267           7,267
     38   AN/SQQ-89 SURF ASW COMBAT              138,065         138,065
           SYSTEM.......................
     39   SSN ACOUSTIC EQUIPMENT........         463,577         463,577
     40   UNDERSEA WARFARE SUPPORT                23,452          23,452
           EQUIPMENT....................
          ASW ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
     41   SUBMARINE ACOUSTIC WARFARE              46,726          46,726
           SYSTEM.......................
     42   SSTD..........................          14,560          14,560
     43   FIXED SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM.....         420,069         420,069
     44   SURTASS.......................          33,910          33,910
          ELECTRONIC WARFARE EQUIPMENT
     45   AN/SLQ-32.....................         329,513         329,513
          RECONNAISSANCE EQUIPMENT
     46   SHIPBOARD IW EXPLOIT..........         379,230         379,230
     47   AUTOMATED IDENTIFICATION                 4,082           4,082
           SYSTEM (AIS).................
          OTHER SHIP ELECTRONIC
           EQUIPMENT
     48   COOPERATIVE ENGAGEMENT                  37,677          37,677
           CAPABILITY...................
     49   NAVAL TACTICAL COMMAND SUPPORT          15,374          15,374
           SYSTEM (NTCSS)...............
     50   ATDLS.........................          50,148          50,148
     51   NAVY COMMAND AND CONTROL                 3,918           3,918
           SYSTEM (NCCS)................
     52   MINESWEEPING SYSTEM                     16,814          16,814
           REPLACEMENT..................
     54   NAVSTAR GPS RECEIVERS (SPACE).          37,319          37,319
     55   AMERICAN FORCES RADIO AND TV             2,750           2,750
           SERVICE......................
     56   STRATEGIC PLATFORM SUPPORT               6,437           6,437
           EQUIP........................
          AVIATION ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
     57   ASHORE ATC EQUIPMENT..........          89,237          89,237
     58   AFLOAT ATC EQUIPMENT..........          90,487          90,487
     59   ID SYSTEMS....................          59,234          59,234
     60   JOINT PRECISION APPROACH AND             3,343           3,343
           LANDING SYSTEM (.............
     61   NAVAL MISSION PLANNING SYSTEMS          39,180          39,180
          OTHER SHORE ELECTRONIC
           EQUIPMENT
     62   MARITIME INTEGRATED BROADCAST            6,994           6,994
           SYSTEM.......................
     63   TACTICAL/MOBILE C4I SYSTEMS...          52,026          52,026
     64   DCGS-N........................          16,579          16,579
     65   CANES.........................         467,587         467,587
     66   RADIAC........................          16,475          16,475
     67   CANES-INTELL..................          48,207          48,207
     68   GPETE.........................          25,761          25,761
     69   MASF..........................          16,475          16,475
     70   INTEG COMBAT SYSTEM TEST                 6,345           6,345
           FACILITY.....................
     71   EMI CONTROL INSTRUMENTATION...           4,282           4,282
     73   IN-SERVICE RADARS AND SENSORS.         255,256         255,256
          SHIPBOARD COMMUNICATIONS
     74   BATTLE FORCE TACTICAL NETWORK.          74,180          74,180
     75   SHIPBOARD TACTICAL                      29,776          29,776
           COMMUNICATIONS...............
     76   SHIP COMMUNICATIONS AUTOMATION          96,916          96,916
     77   COMMUNICATIONS ITEMS UNDER $5M          14,107          14,107
          SUBMARINE COMMUNICATIONS
     78   SUBMARINE BROADCAST SUPPORT...          73,791          73,791
     79   SUBMARINE COMMUNICATION                 83,178          83,178
           EQUIPMENT....................
          SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
     80   SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS                72,871          72,871
           SYSTEMS......................
     81   NAVY MULTIBAND TERMINAL (NMT).          37,921          37,921
          SHORE COMMUNICATIONS
     82   JOINT COMMUNICATIONS SUPPORT             5,065           5,065
           ELEMENT (JCSE)...............
          CRYPTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT
     83   INFO SYSTEMS SECURITY PROGRAM          154,890         154,890
           (ISSP).......................
     84   MIO INTEL EXPLOITATION TEAM...           1,079           1,079
          CRYPTOLOGIC EQUIPMENT
     85   CRYPTOLOGIC COMMUNICATIONS              17,483          17,483
           EQUIP........................
          OTHER ELECTRONIC SUPPORT
     86   COAST GUARD EQUIPMENT.........          77,458          77,458
          SONOBUOYS
     88   SONOBUOYS--ALL TYPES..........         311,177         311,177
          AIRCRAFT SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
     89   MINOTAUR......................           5,396           5,396
     90   WEAPONS RANGE SUPPORT                  147,556         147,556
           EQUIPMENT....................
     91   AIRCRAFT SUPPORT EQUIPMENT....         162,273         162,273
     92   ADVANCED ARRESTING GEAR (AAG).          11,930          11,930
     93   ELECTROMAGNETIC AIRCRAFT                17,836          17,836
           LAUNCH SYSTEM (EMALS.........
     94   METEOROLOGICAL EQUIPMENT......          19,703          19,703
     95   LEGACY AIRBORNE MCM...........          12,202          12,202
     97   AVIATION SUPPORT EQUIPMENT....          82,115          82,115
     98   UMCS-UNMAN CARRIER                     152,687         152,687
           AVIATION(UCA)MISSION CNTRL...
     99   ARCHITECT & CAP FOR AUTONOMY             1,612           1,612
           IN NAV ENTER (AR.............
          SHIP GUN SYSTEM EQUIPMENT
    100   SHIP GUN SYSTEMS EQUIPMENT....           6,404           6,404
          SHIP MISSILE SYSTEMS EQUIPMENT
    101   HARPOON SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.....             227             227
    102   SHIP MISSILE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT         294,511         294,511
    103   TOMAHAWK SUPPORT EQUIPMENT....          92,432          92,432
          FBM SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
    104   STRATEGIC MISSILE SYSTEMS              325,318         325,318
           EQUIP........................
          ASW SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
    105   SSN COMBAT CONTROL SYSTEMS....         133,063         133,063
    106   ASW SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.........          27,469          27,469
          OTHER ORDNANCE SUPPORT
           EQUIPMENT
    107   EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL             27,864          27,864
           EQUIP........................
    108   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION....           6,171           6,171
          OTHER EXPENDABLE ORDNANCE
    109   ANTI-SHIP MISSILE DECOY SYSTEM          56,630          56,630
    110   SUBMARINE TRAINING DEVICE MODS          76,954          76,954
    111   SURFACE TRAINING EQUIPMENT....         209,487         209,487
          CIVIL ENGINEERING SUPPORT
           EQUIPMENT
    112   PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES...           3,827           3,827
    113   GENERAL PURPOSE TRUCKS........           4,570           4,570
    114   CONSTRUCTION & MAINTENANCE              56,829          56,829
           EQUIP........................
    115   FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT.......          16,583          16,583
    116   TACTICAL VEHICLES.............          24,236          24,236
    117   AMPHIBIOUS EQUIPMENT..........           4,504           4,504
    118   POLLUTION CONTROL EQUIPMENT...           3,898           3,898
    119   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION....          67,286          67,286
    120   PHYSICAL SECURITY VEHICLES....           1,286           1,286
          SUPPLY SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
    121   SUPPLY EQUIPMENT..............          33,258          33,258
    122   FIRST DESTINATION                        6,977           6,977
           TRANSPORTATION...............
    123   SPECIAL PURPOSE SUPPLY SYSTEMS         659,529         659,529
          TRAINING DEVICES
    124   TRAINING SUPPORT EQUIPMENT....           2,083           2,083
    125   TRAINING AND EDUCATION                 106,542         106,542
           EQUIPMENT....................
          COMMAND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
    126   COMMAND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.....          44,448          44,448
    127   MEDICAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.....          12,529          12,529
    129   NAVAL MIP SUPPORT EQUIPMENT...           5,408           5,408
    130   OPERATING FORCES SUPPORT                12,105          12,105
           EQUIPMENT....................
    131   C4ISR EQUIPMENT...............           7,670           7,670
    132   ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT                   52,597          52,597
           EQUIPMENT....................
    133   PHYSICAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT...         108,901         108,901
    134   ENTERPRISE INFORMATION                  42,154          42,154
           TECHNOLOGY...................
          OTHER
    139   NEXT GENERATION ENTERPRISE             177,585         177,585
           SERVICE......................
    140   CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES.........          23,176          23,176
          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
   9999   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........          16,290          16,290
          SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
    142   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.......         645,900         645,900
    143   VIRGINIA CLASS (VACL) SPARES           470,000         470,000
           AND REPAIR PARTS.............
          TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, NAVY.      14,535,257      14,535,257
 
          PROCUREMENT, MARINE CORPS
          TRACKED COMBAT VEHICLES
      1   AAV7A1 PIP....................           3,353           3,353
      2   AMPHIBIOUS COMBAT VEHICLE              557,564         557,564
           FAMILY OF VEHICLES...........
      3   LAV PIP.......................          42,052          42,052
          ARTILLERY AND OTHER WEAPONS
      4   155MM LIGHTWEIGHT TOWED                    489             489
           HOWITZER.....................
      5   ARTILLERY WEAPONS SYSTEM......         165,268         165,268
      6   WEAPONS AND COMBAT VEHICLES             14,004          14,004
           UNDER $5 MILLION.............
          GUIDED MISSILES
      7   TOMAHAWK......................         105,192         105,192
      8   NAVAL STRIKE MISSILE (NSM)....         169,726         169,726
      9   NAVAL STRIKE MISSILE (NSM)....          39,244          39,244
     10   GROUND BASED AIR DEFENSE......         249,103         253,603
          Program increase..............                         [4,500]
     11   ANTI-ARMOR MISSILE-JAVELIN....          54,883          54,883
     12   FAMILY ANTI-ARMOR WEAPON                23,627          23,627
           SYSTEMS (FOAAWS).............
     13   ANTI-ARMOR MISSILE-TOW........           2,007           2,007
     14   GUIDED MLRS ROCKET (GMLRS)....           8,867           8,867
          COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEMS
     15   COMMON AVIATION COMMAND AND             75,382          75,382
           CONTROL SYSTEM (C............
          REPAIR AND TEST EQUIPMENT
     16   REPAIR AND TEST EQUIPMENT.....          53,590          53,590
          OTHER SUPPORT (TEL)
     17   MODIFICATION KITS.............           1,782           1,782
          COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM
           (NON-TEL)
     18   ITEMS UNDER $5 MILLION (COMM &         122,917         122,917
           ELEC)........................
     19   AIR OPERATIONS C2 SYSTEMS.....          23,744          23,744
          RADAR + EQUIPMENT (NON-TEL)
     20   GROUND/AIR TASK ORIENTED RADAR          66,291          66,291
           (G/ATOR).....................
          INTELL/COMM EQUIPMENT (NON-
           TEL)
     21   ELECTRO MAGNETIC SPECTRUM              177,270         177,270
           OPERATIONS (EMSO)............
     22   GCSS-MC.......................           4,144           4,144
     23   FIRE SUPPORT SYSTEM...........          58,483          58,483
     24   INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT         148,062         148,062
     26   UNMANNED AIR SYSTEMS (INTEL)..          52,273          52,273
     27   DCGS-MC.......................          68,289          68,289
     28   UAS PAYLOADS..................          19,088          19,088
          OTHER SUPPORT (NON-TEL)
     31   EXPEDITIONARY SUPPORT                    2,010           2,010
           EQUIPMENT....................
     32   MARINE CORPS ENTERPRISE                259,044         259,044
           NETWORK (MCEN)...............
     33   COMMON COMPUTER RESOURCES.....          27,966          27,966
     34   COMMAND POST SYSTEMS..........          71,109          71,109
     35   RADIO SYSTEMS.................         544,059         544,059
     36   COMM SWITCHING & CONTROL                46,276          46,276
           SYSTEMS......................
     37   COMM & ELEC INFRASTRUCTURE              27,111          27,111
           SUPPORT......................
     38   CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES.........          27,583          27,583
     40   UNMANNED EXPEDITIONARY SYSTEMS          13,564          13,564
          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
   9999   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........           2,799           2,799
          ADMINISTRATIVE VEHICLES
     43   COMMERCIAL CARGO VEHICLES.....          34,169          34,169
          TACTICAL VEHICLES
     44   MOTOR TRANSPORT MODIFICATIONS.          17,299          17,299
     45   JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE..         232,501         232,501
     46   TRAILERS......................           2,034           2,034
          ENGINEER AND OTHER EQUIPMENT
     47   TACTICAL FUEL SYSTEMS.........          12,956          12,956
     48   POWER EQUIPMENT ASSORTED......          28,899          28,899
     49   AMPHIBIOUS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT..          15,691          15,691
     50   EOD SYSTEMS...................          41,200          41,200
          MATERIALS HANDLING EQUIPMENT
     51   PHYSICAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT...          53,949          53,949
          GENERAL PROPERTY
     52   FIELD MEDICAL EQUIPMENT.......           5,457           5,457
     53   TRAINING DEVICES..............          96,577          96,577
     54   FAMILY OF CONSTRUCTION                  29,883          29,883
           EQUIPMENT....................
     55   ULTRA-LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE            17,034          17,034
           (ULTV).......................
          OTHER SUPPORT
     56   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION....          27,691          27,691
          SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
     57   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.......          35,657          35,657
          TOTAL PROCUREMENT, MARINE            3,979,212       3,983,712
           CORPS........................
 
          AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, AIR
           FORCE
          STRATEGIC OFFENSIVE
      1   B-21 RAIDER...................       1,617,093       1,617,093
      2   B-21 RAIDER...................         708,000         708,000
          TACTICAL FORCES
      3   F-35..........................       4,877,121       4,877,121
      4   F-35..........................         402,000         402,000
      5   F-15EX........................       2,670,039       2,469,591
          DAF requested realignment of                        [-200,448]
           funds........................
      6   F-15EX........................         228,000         228,000
          TACTICAL AIRLIFT
      7   KC-46A MDAP...................       2,882,590       2,882,590
          OTHER AIRLIFT
      8   C-130J........................          34,921          34,921
          HELICOPTERS
     11   MH-139A.......................         228,807         228,807
     12   COMBAT RESCUE HELICOPTER......         282,533         282,533
          MISSION SUPPORT AIRCRAFT
     13   CIVIL AIR PATROL A/C..........           3,013           3,013
          OTHER AIRCRAFT
     15   TARGET DRONES.................          42,226          42,226
     17   E-11 BACN/HAG.................          67,367          67,367
          STRATEGIC AIRCRAFT
     19   B-2A..........................         107,980         107,980
     20   B-1B..........................          12,757           9,782
          DAF requested realignment of                          [-2,975]
           funds........................
     21   B-52..........................          65,815          51,798
          DAF requested realignment of                         [-14,017]
           funds........................
     22   LARGE AIRCRAFT INFRARED                 21,723          21,723
           COUNTERMEASURES..............
          TACTICAL AIRCRAFT
     24   E-11 BACN/HAG.................          58,923          58,923
     25   F-15..........................          34,830         155,278
          DAF requested realignment of                         [120,448]
           funds........................
     26   F-16..........................         297,342         297,342
     27   F-22A.........................         794,676         794,676
     28   F-35 MODIFICATIONS............         451,798         451,798
     29   F-15 EPAW.....................         280,658         280,658
          AIRLIFT AIRCRAFT
     31   C-5...........................          24,377          24,377
     32   C-17A.........................         140,560         140,560
     33   C-32A.........................          19,060          19,060
     34   C-37A.........................          13,454          13,454
          TRAINER AIRCRAFT
     35   GLIDER MODS...................           5,270           5,270
     36   T-6...........................           2,942           2,942
     37   T-1...........................          10,950          10,950
     38   T-38..........................         125,340         125,340
          OTHER AIRCRAFT
     40   U-2 MODS......................          54,727          54,727
     42   C-12..........................             446             446
     44   VC-25A MOD....................          29,707          29,707
     45   C-40..........................           8,921           8,921
     46   C-130.........................          71,177          71,177
     47   C-130J MODS...................         121,258         121,258
     48   C-135.........................         153,595         153,595
     49   COMPASS CALL..................         144,686         144,686
     50   COMBAT FLIGHT INSPECTION--CFIN             446             446
     51   RC-135........................         220,138         240,138
          RC-135 alternate PNT upgrades.                        [20,000]
     52   E-3...........................           1,350           1,350
     53   E-4...........................          13,055          13,055
     56   H-1...........................             816             816
     57   H-60..........................           4,207           4,207
     60   HC/MC-130 MODIFICATIONS.......         101,055         101,055
     61   OTHER AIRCRAFT................          54,134          73,403
          DAF requested realignment of                          [11,619]
           funds........................
          DAF requested realignment of                           [7,650]
           funds for SLPA-A.............
     62   MQ-9 MODS.....................          98,063          98,063
     64   SENIOR LEADER C3 SYSTEM--               24,847          24,847
           AIRCRAFT.....................
     65   CV-22 MODS....................         153,006         153,006
          AIRCRAFT SPARES AND REPAIR
           PARTS
     66   INITIAL SPARES/REPAIR PARTS...         781,521         772,877
          DAF requested realignment of                          [-8,644]
           funds........................
          COMMON SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
     67   AIRCRAFT REPLACEMENT SUPPORT           157,664         157,664
           EQUIP........................
          POST PRODUCTION SUPPORT
     68   B-2A..........................           1,838           1,838
     69   B-2B..........................          15,207          15,207
     72   MC-130J.......................          10,117          10,117
     74   F-16..........................           1,075           1,075
     75   F-22A.........................          38,418          38,418
          INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS
     79   INDUSTRIAL RESPONSIVENESS.....          18,874          18,874
          WAR CONSUMABLES
     80   WAR CONSUMABLES...............          27,482          27,482
          OTHER PRODUCTION CHARGES
     81   OTHER PRODUCTION CHARGES......       1,478,044       1,558,044
          DAF requested realignment of                          [80,000]
           funds........................
          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
   9999   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........          17,165          17,165
          TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,         20,315,204      20,328,837
           AIR FORCE....................
 
          MISSILE PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
          MISSILE REPLACEMENT EQUIPMENT--
           BALLISTIC
      1   MISSILE REPLACEMENT EQ-                 69,319          69,319
           BALLISTIC....................
          BALLISTIC MISSILES
      3   GROUND BASED STRATEGIC                 539,300         539,300
           DETERRENT....................
          STRATEGIC
          TACTICAL
      4   LONG RANGE STAND-OFF WEAPON...          66,816          66,816
      5   REPLAC EQUIP & WAR CONSUMABLES          37,318          37,318
      6   JOINT AIR-SURFACE STANDOFF             915,996         915,996
           MISSILE......................
      7   JOINT AIR-SURFACE STANDOFF             769,672         769,672
           MISSILE......................
      8   JOINT STRIKE MISSILE..........         161,011         161,011
      9   LRASM0........................          87,796          87,796
     10   LRASM0........................          99,871          99,871
     11   SIDEWINDER (AIM-9X)...........          95,643          95,643
     12   AMRAAM........................         489,049         489,049
     13   AMRAAM........................         212,410         212,410
     14   PREDATOR HELLFIRE MISSILE.....           1,049           1,049
     15   SMALL DIAMETER BOMB...........          48,734          48,734
     16   SMALL DIAMETER BOMB II........         291,553         291,553
     17   STAND-IN ATTACK WEAPON (SIAW).          41,947          41,947
          INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES
     18   INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS/POL                793             793
           PREVENTION...................
          CLASS IV
     19   ICBM FUZE MOD.................         115,745         115,745
     20   ICBM FUZE MOD.................          43,044          43,044
     21   MM III MODIFICATIONS..........          48,639          48,639
     22   AIR LAUNCH CRUISE MISSILE               41,494          41,494
           (ALCM).......................
          MISSILE SPARES AND REPAIR
           PARTS
     23   MSL SPRS/REPAIR PARTS                    6,840           6,840
           (INITIAL)....................
     24   MSL SPRS/REPAIR PARTS (REPLEN)          75,191          75,191
          SPECIAL PROGRAMS
     29   SPECIAL UPDATE PROGRAMS.......         419,498         419,498
          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
   9999   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........         851,718         851,718
          TOTAL MISSILE PROCUREMENT, AIR       5,530,446       5,530,446
           FORCE........................
 
          PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, AIR
           FORCE
          ROCKETS
      1   ROCKETS.......................          18,483          18,483
          CARTRIDGES
      2   CARTRIDGES....................         101,104         101,104
          BOMBS
      4   GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS.........         142,118         142,118
      5   MASSIVE ORDNANCE PENETRATOR             14,074          14,074
           (MOP)........................
      6   JOINT DIRECT ATTACK MUNITION..         132,364         132,364
      7   B-61..........................              68              68
      8   B61-12 TRAINER................          10,100          10,100
          OTHER ITEMS
      9   CAD/PAD.......................          51,487          51,487
     10   EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL              6,707           6,707
           (EOD)........................
     11   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.......             585             585
     13   FIRST DESTINATION                        2,299           2,299
           TRANSPORTATION...............
     14   ITEMS LESS THAN $5,000,000....           5,115           5,115
          FLARES
     15   EXPENDABLE COUNTERMEASURES....          79,786          79,786
          FUZES
     16   FUZES.........................         109,562         109,562
          SMALL ARMS
     17   SMALL ARMS....................          29,306          29,306
          TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF                   703,158         703,158
           AMMUNITION, AIR FORCE........
 
          PROCUREMENT, SPACE FORCE
          SPACE PROCUREMENT, SF
      1   AF SATELLITE COMM SYSTEM......          64,345          64,345
      3   COUNTERSPACE SYSTEMS..........          52,665          52,665
      4   FAMILY OF BEYOND LINE-OF-SIGHT          25,057          25,057
           TERMINALS....................
      5   FABT FORCE ELEMENT TERMINAL...         121,634         121,634
      7   GENERAL INFORMATION TECH--               3,451           3,451
           SPACE........................
      8   GPSIII FOLLOW ON..............         119,700         119,700
      9   GPS III SPACE SEGMENT.........         121,770         121,770
     10   GLOBAL POSTIONING (SPACE).....             893             893
     11   HERITAGE TRANSITION...........           6,110           6,110
     12   JOINT TACTICAL GROUND STATIONS             580             580
     13   SPACEBORNE EQUIP (COMSEC).....          83,168          83,168
     14   MILSATCOM.....................          44,672          44,672
     15   SBIR HIGH (SPACE).............          39,438          39,438
     16   SPECIAL SPACE ACTIVITIES......         840,913         380,213
          Space Force realignment of                          [-497,000]
           funds........................
          Space Force Unfunded                                  [36,300]
           Priorities List Classified
           Program A....................
     17   MOBILE USER OBJECTIVE SYSTEM..         101,147         101,147
     18   NATIONAL SECURITY SPACE LAUNCH       2,142,846       2,142,846
     20   PTES HUB......................          56,482          56,482
     21   ROCKET SYSTEMS LAUNCH PROGRAM.          74,848          74,848
     22   SPACE DEVELOPMENT AGENCY               529,468         529,468
           LAUNCH.......................
     23   SPACE MODS....................         166,596         166,596
     24   SPACELIFT RANGE SYSTEM SPACE..         114,505         114,505
          SPARES
     25   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.......             906             906
          SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
     26   POWER CONDITIONING EQUIPMENT..           3,100           3,100
          TOTAL PROCUREMENT, SPACE FORCE       4,714,294       4,253,594
 
          OTHER PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
          PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES
      1   PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES...           6,123           6,123
          CARGO AND UTILITY VEHICLES
      2   MEDIUM TACTICAL VEHICLE.......           3,961           3,961
      3   CAP VEHICLES..................           1,027           1,027
      4   CARGO AND UTILITY VEHICLES....          45,036          47,338
          DAF requested realignment of                             [328]
           funds........................
          DAF requested realignment of                           [1,974]
           funds from OMAF SAG 11R......
          SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLES
      5   JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE..          57,780          57,780
      6   SECURITY AND TACTICAL VEHICLES             390             390
      7   SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLES......          79,023          82,803
          DAF requested realignment of                             [340]
           funds........................
          DAF requested realignment of                           [3,440]
           funds from OMAF SAG 11R......
          FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT
      8   FIRE FIGHTING/CRASH RESCUE              70,252          70,252
           VEHICLES.....................
          MATERIALS HANDLING EQUIPMENT
      9   MATERIALS HANDLING VEHICLES...          73,805          75,895
          DAF requested realignment of                           [1,805]
           funds from OMAF SAG 11R......
          DAF requested realignment of                             [285]
           funds from OPAF line 11......
          BASE MAINTENANCE SUPPORT
     10   RUNWAY SNOW REMOV AND CLEANING          22,030          22,030
           EQU..........................
     11   BASE MAINTENANCE SUPPORT               223,354         240,634
           VEHICLES.....................
          DAF requested realignment of                            [-953]
           funds........................
          DAF requested realignment of                          [18,233]
           funds from OMAF SAG 11R......
          COMM SECURITY
           EQUIPMENT(COMSEC)
     13   COMSEC EQUIPMENT..............          98,600          98,600
          INTELLIGENCE PROGRAMS
     15   INTERNATIONAL INTEL TFECH &              5,393           5,393
           ARCHITECTURES................
     16   INTELLIGENCE TRAINING                    5,012           5,012
           EQUIPMENT....................
     17   INTELLIGENCE COMM EQUIPMENT...          40,042          40,042
          ELECTRONICS PROGRAMS
     18   AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL & LANDING           67,581          67,581
           SYS..........................
     19   NATIONAL AIRSPACE SYSTEM......           3,841           3,841
     20   BATTLE CONTROL SYSTEM--FIXED..           1,867           1,867
     22   3D EXPEDITIONARY LONG-RANGE             83,735          83,735
           RADAR........................
     23   WEATHER OBSERVATION FORECAST..          28,530          28,530
     24   STRATEGIC COMMAND AND CONTROL.          73,593          73,593
     25   CHEYENNE MOUNTAIN COMPLEX.....           8,221           8,221
     26   MISSION PLANNING SYSTEMS......          17,078          17,078
     29   STRATEGIC MISSION PLANNING &             3,861           3,861
           EXECUTION SYSTEM.............
          SPCL COMM-ELECTRONICS PROJECTS
     30   GENERAL INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY         206,142         237,093
          DAF requested realignment of                          [30,951]
           funds........................
     31   AF GLOBAL COMMAND & CONTROL              2,582           2,582
           SYS..........................
     32   BATTLEFIELD AIRBORNE CONTROL                30              30
           NODE (BACN)..................
     33   MOBILITY COMMAND AND CONTROL..           3,768           3,768
     34   AIR FORCE PHYSICAL SECURITY            208,704         208,704
           SYSTEM.......................
     35   COMBAT TRAINING RANGES........         346,340         346,340
     36   MINIMUM ESSENTIAL EMERGENCY             84,102          84,102
           COMM N.......................
     37   WIDE AREA SURVEILLANCE (WAS)..          11,594          11,594
     38   C3 COUNTERMEASURES............         148,818         148,818
     44   AIR & SPACE OPERATIONS CENTER            5,032           5,032
           (AOC)........................
          AIR FORCE COMMUNICATIONS
     46   BASE INFORMATION TRANSPT               108,532         322,704
           INFRAST (BITI) WIRED.........
          DAF requested realignment of                         [214,172]
           funds........................
     47   AFNET.........................         154,911         154,911
     48   JOINT COMMUNICATIONS SUPPORT             5,381           5,381
           ELEMENT (JCSE)...............
     49   USCENTCOM.....................          18,025          18,025
     50   USSTRATCOM....................           4,436           4,436
     51   USSPACECOM....................          27,073          27,073
          ORGANIZATION AND BASE
     52   TACTICAL C-E EQUIPMENT........         226,819         226,819
     53   RADIO EQUIPMENT...............          30,407          30,407
     54   BASE COMM INFRASTRUCTURE......         113,563         113,563
          MODIFICATIONS
     55   COMM ELECT MODS...............          98,224          98,224
          PERSONAL SAFETY & RESCUE EQUIP
     56   PERSONAL SAFETY AND RESCUE              60,473          60,473
           EQUIPMENT....................
          DEPOT PLANT+MTRLS HANDLING EQ
     57   POWER CONDITIONING EQUIPMENT..           9,235           9,235
     58   MECHANIZED MATERIAL HANDLING            15,662          15,662
           EQUIP........................
          BASE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
     59   BASE PROCURED EQUIPMENT.......          77,875          77,875
     60   ENGINEERING AND EOD EQUIPMENT.         280,734         288,968
          DAF requested realignment of                           [2,284]
           funds........................
          DAF requested realignment of                           [5,950]
           funds from OMAF SAG 11R......
     61   MOBILITY EQUIPMENT............         207,071         232,271
          DAF requested realignment of                          [25,200]
           funds from OMAF SAG 11R......
     62   FUELS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT (FSE).         218,790         218,790
     63   BASE MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT            51,914          51,914
           EQUIPMENT....................
          SPECIAL SUPPORT PROJECTS
     65   DARP RC135....................          28,882          28,882
     66   DCGS-AF.......................         129,655         129,655
     70   SPECIAL UPDATE PROGRAM........       1,042,833       1,042,833
          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
   9999   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........      25,456,490      25,456,490
          SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
     71   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS                  1,032           1,032
           (CYBER)......................
     72   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.......          12,628          12,628
          TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, AIR        30,417,892      30,721,901
           FORCE........................
 
          PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-WIDE
          MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DCSA
     29   MAJOR EQUIPMENT...............           2,135           2,135
          MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DHRA
     43   PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION......           3,704           3,704
          MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DISA
     11   INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY..          12,275          12,275
     12   TELEPORT PROGRAM..............          42,399          42,399
     14   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION....          47,538          47,538
     15   DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM              39,472          39,472
           NETWORK......................
     16   WHITE HOUSE COMMUNICATION              118,523         118,523
           AGENCY.......................
     17   SENIOR LEADERSHIP ENTERPRISE..          94,591          94,591
     18   JOINT REGIONAL SECURITY STACKS          22,714          15,714
           (JRSS).......................
          Program reduction.............                        [-7,000]
     19   JOINT SERVICE PROVIDER........         107,637         107,637
     20   FOURTH ESTATE NETWORK                   33,047          33,047
           OPTIMIZATION (4ENO)..........
          MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DLA
     28   MAJOR EQUIPMENT...............          30,355          30,355
          MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DMACT
     50   MAJOR EQUIPMENT...............          13,012          13,012
          MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DODEA
     49   AUTOMATION/EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT           1,358           1,358
           & LOGISTICS..................
          MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DPAA
      1   MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DPAA.........             516             516
          MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DEFENSE
           THREAT REDUCTION AGENCY
     46   VEHICLES......................             366             366
     47   OTHER MAJOR EQUIPMENT.........          12,787          12,787
     48   DTRA CYBER ACTIVITIES.........          21,413          21,413
          MAJOR EQUIPMENT, MISSILE
           DEFENSE AGENCY
     31   THAAD.........................         216,782         216,782
     33   AEGIS BMD.....................         374,756         374,756
     35   BMDS AN/TPY-2 RADARS..........          29,108          29,108
     36   SM-3 IIAS.....................         432,824         432,824
     37   ARROW 3 UPPER TIER SYSTEMS....          80,000          80,000
     38   SHORT RANGE BALLISTIC MISSILE           40,000          40,000
           DEFENSE (SRBMD)..............
     39   DEFENSE OF GUAM PROCUREMENT...         169,627         169,627
     40   AEGIS ASHORE PHASE III........           2,390           2,390
     41   IRON DOME.....................          80,000          80,000
     42   AEGIS BMD HARDWARE AND                  27,825          27,825
           SOFTWARE.....................
          MAJOR EQUIPMENT, OSD
      2   MAJOR EQUIPMENT, OSD..........         186,006         186,006
          MAJOR EQUIPMENT, TJS
     30   MAJOR EQUIPMENT, TJS..........           3,747           3,747
          MAJOR EQUIPMENT, USCYBERCOM
     51   CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS.........         129,082         160,082
          Modernization of Department of                        [31,000]
           Defense Internet Gateway
           Cyber Defense................
          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
   9999   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........         658,529         658,529
          AVIATION PROGRAMS
     53   ARMED OVERWATCH/TARGETING.....         266,846         266,846
     54   MANNED ISR....................           7,000           7,000
     55   MC-12.........................             600             600
     57   ROTARY WING UPGRADES AND               261,012         261,012
           SUSTAINMENT..................
     58   UNMANNED ISR..................          26,997          26,997
     59   NON-STANDARD AVIATION.........          25,782          25,782
     60   U-28..........................           7,198           7,198
     61   MH-47 CHINOOK.................         149,883         149,883
     62   CV-22 MODIFICATION............          75,981          75,981
     63   MQ-9 UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLE..          17,684          17,684
     64   PRECISION STRIKE PACKAGE......         108,497         108,497
     65   AC/MC-130J....................         319,754         319,754
     66   C-130 MODIFICATIONS...........          18,796          18,796
          SHIPBUILDING
     67   UNDERWATER SYSTEMS............          66,111          78,171
          Seal Delivery Vehicle (SDV)                           [12,060]
           Sonar Payload for Subsea
           Seabed Acceleration..........
          AMMUNITION PROGRAMS
     68   ORDNANCE ITEMS <$5M...........         147,831         147,831
          OTHER PROCUREMENT PROGRAMS
     69   INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS..........         203,400         203,400
     70   DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND/               5,718           5,718
           SURFACE SYSTEMS..............
     71   OTHER ITEMS <$5M..............         108,816         108,816
     72   COMBATANT CRAFT SYSTEMS.......          55,064          55,064
     73   SPECIAL PROGRAMS..............          20,412          20,412
     74   TACTICAL VEHICLES.............          56,561          56,561
     75   WARRIOR SYSTEMS <$5M..........         329,837         344,637
          Counter Uncrewed Aerial                               [14,800]
           Systems (CUAS) Group 3 Defeat
           Acceleration.................
     76   COMBAT MISSION REQUIREMENTS...           4,987           4,987
     77   OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS                23,639          23,639
           INTELLIGENCE.................
     78   OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS......         322,341         322,341
          CBDP
     79   CHEMICAL BIOLOGICAL                    159,884         159,884
           SITUATIONAL AWARENESS........
     80   CB PROTECTION & HAZARD                 231,826         236,826
           MITIGATION...................
          Chemical nerve agent                                   [5,000]
           countermeasures..............
          TOTAL PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-          6,056,975       6,112,835
           WIDE.........................
 
          TOTAL PROCUREMENT.............     167,988,341     169,840,643
------------------------------------------------------------------------

        TITLE XLII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION (In Thousands of Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                      FY 2024         Senate
  Line              Program Element                          Item                     Request       Authorized
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          ..................................  RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
                                               EVAL, ARMY
          ..................................  BASIC RESEARCH
     1    0601102A                            DEFENSE RESEARCH SCIENCES.........         296,670         296,670
     2    0601103A                            UNIVERSITY RESEARCH INITIATIVES...          75,672          75,672
     3    0601104A                            UNIVERSITY AND INDUSTRY RESEARCH           108,946         108,946
                                               CENTERS.
     4    0601121A                            CYBER COLLABORATIVE RESEARCH                 5,459           5,459
                                               ALLIANCE.
     5    0601601A                            ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND                 10,708          10,708
                                               MACHINE LEARNING BASIC RESEARCH.
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL BASIC RESEARCH...........         497,455         497,455
          ..................................
          ..................................  APPLIED RESEARCH
     6    0602002A                            ARMY AGILE INNOVATION AND                    5,613           5,613
                                               DEVELOPMENT-APPLIED RESEARCH.
     8    0602134A                            COUNTER IMPROVISED-THREAT ADVANCED           6,242           6,242
                                               STUDIES.
     9    0602141A                            LETHALITY TECHNOLOGY..............          85,578          85,578
    10    0602142A                            ARMY APPLIED RESEARCH.............          34,572          34,572
    11    0602143A                            SOLDIER LETHALITY TECHNOLOGY......         104,470         114,470
          ..................................  Airborne Pathfinder...............                        [10,000]
    12    0602144A                            GROUND TECHNOLOGY.................          60,005          80,005
          ..................................  Critical hybrid advanced materials                         [7,000]
                                               processing.
          ..................................  Engineered repair materials for                            [3,000]
                                               roadways.
          ..................................  Polar proving ground and training                          [5,000]
                                               program.
          ..................................  Titanium metal powder production                           [5,000]
                                               technology.
    13    0602145A                            NEXT GENERATION COMBAT VEHICLE             166,500         181,500
                                               TECHNOLOGY.
          ..................................  Fuel cells for next generation                             [5,000]
                                               combat vehicles.
          ..................................  Hydrogen fuel source research and                         [10,000]
                                               development.
    14    0602146A                            NETWORK C3I TECHNOLOGY............          81,618          81,618
    15    0602147A                            LONG RANGE PRECISION FIRES                  34,683          34,683
                                               TECHNOLOGY.
    16    0602148A                            FUTURE VERTICLE LIFT TECHNOLOGY...          73,844          73,844
    17    0602150A                            AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY          33,301          38,301
          ..................................  Counter-Unmanned Aircraft Systems                          [5,000]
                                               technology.
    18    0602180A                            ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND                 24,142          24,142
                                               MACHINE LEARNING TECHNOLOGIES.
    19    0602181A                            ALL DOMAIN CONVERGENCE APPLIED              14,297          14,297
                                               RESEARCH.
    20    0602182A                            C3I APPLIED RESEARCH..............          30,659          30,659
    21    0602183A                            AIR PLATFORM APPLIED RESEARCH.....          48,163          48,163
    22    0602184A                            SOLDIER APPLIED RESEARCH..........          18,986          18,986
    23    0602213A                            C3I APPLIED CYBER.................          22,714          22,714
    24    0602386A                            BIOTECHNOLOGY FOR MATERIALS--               16,736          16,736
                                               APPLIED RESEARCH.
    25    0602785A                            MANPOWER/PERSONNEL/TRAINING                 19,969          19,969
                                               TECHNOLOGY.
    26    0602787A                            MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY................          66,266          71,266
          ..................................  Preventing trauma-related stress                           [5,000]
                                               disorder.
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL APPLIED RESEARCH.........         948,358       1,003,358
          ..................................
          ..................................  ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
    27    0603002A                            MEDICAL ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY.......           4,147           4,147
    28    0603007A                            MANPOWER, PERSONNEL AND TRAINING            16,316          16,316
                                               ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY.
    29    0603025A                            ARMY AGILE INNOVATION AND                   23,156          23,156
                                               DEMONSTRATION.
    30    0603040A                            ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND                 13,187          18,187
                                               MACHINE LEARNING ADVANCED
                                               TECHNOLOGIES.
          ..................................  Tactical artificial intelligence                           [5,000]
                                               and machine learning.
    31    0603041A                            ALL DOMAIN CONVERGENCE ADVANCED             33,332          33,332
                                               TECHNOLOGY.
    32    0603042A                            C3I ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY...........          19,225          19,225
    33    0603043A                            AIR PLATFORM ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY..          14,165          14,165
    34    0603044A                            SOLDIER ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY.......           1,214           1,214
    36    0603116A                            LETHALITY ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY.....          20,582          20,582
    37    0603117A                            ARMY ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY                   136,280         136,280
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
    38    0603118A                            SOLDIER LETHALITY ADVANCED                 102,778         102,778
                                               TECHNOLOGY.
    39    0603119A                            GROUND ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY........          40,597          45,597
          ..................................  Advanced composites and multi-                             [5,000]
                                               material protective systems.
    40    0603134A                            COUNTER IMPROVISED-THREAT                   21,672          21,672
                                               SIMULATION.
    41    0603386A                            BIOTECHNOLOGY FOR MATERIALS--               59,871          59,871
                                               ADVANCED RESEARCH.
    42    0603457A                            C3I CYBER ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT....          28,847          28,847
    43    0603461A                            HIGH PERFORMANCE COMPUTING                 255,772         265,772
                                               MODERNIZATION PROGRAM.
          ..................................  High Performance Computing                                [10,000]
                                               Modernization Program increase.
    44    0603462A                            NEXT GENERATION COMBAT VEHICLE             217,394         224,394
                                               ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY.
          ..................................  Advanced Manufacturing Center of                           [7,000]
                                               Excellence.
    45    0603463A                            NETWORK C3I ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY...         105,549         105,549
    46    0603464A                            LONG RANGE PRECISION FIRES                 153,024         158,024
                                               ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY.
          ..................................  Aluminum-Lithium Alloy Solid                               [5,000]
                                               Rocket Motor.
    47    0603465A                            FUTURE VERTICAL LIFT ADVANCED              158,795         158,795
                                               TECHNOLOGY.
    48    0603466A                            AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE ADVANCED            21,015          26,015
                                               TECHNOLOGY.
          ..................................  Rapid Assurance Modernization                              [5,000]
                                               Program-Test.
    49    0603920A                            HUMANITARIAN DEMINING.............           9,068           9,068
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY             1,455,986       1,492,986
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
          ..................................
          ..................................  ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &
                                               PROTOTYPES
    51    0603305A                            ARMY MISSLE DEFENSE SYSTEMS                 12,904          12,904
                                               INTEGRATION.
    52    0603308A                            ARMY SPACE SYSTEMS INTEGRATION....          19,120          19,120
    54    0603619A                            LANDMINE WARFARE AND BARRIER--ADV           47,537          47,537
                                               DEV.
    55    0603639A                            TANK AND MEDIUM CALIBER AMMUNITION          91,323          91,323
    56    0603645A                            ARMORED SYSTEM MODERNIZATION--ADV           43,026          43,026
                                               DEV.
    57    0603747A                            SOLDIER SUPPORT AND SURVIVABILITY.           3,550           3,550
    58    0603766A                            TACTICAL ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE            65,567          65,567
                                               SYSTEM--ADV DEV.
    59    0603774A                            NIGHT VISION SYSTEMS ADVANCED               73,675          73,675
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
    60    0603779A                            ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY TECHNOLOGY--          31,720          31,720
                                               DEM/VAL.
    61    0603790A                            NATO RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.....           4,143           4,143
    62    0603801A                            AVIATION--ADV DEV.................       1,502,160       1,502,160
    63    0603804A                            LOGISTICS AND ENGINEER EQUIPMENT--           7,604           7,604
                                               ADV DEV.
    64    0603807A                            MEDICAL SYSTEMS--ADV DEV..........           1,602           1,602
    65    0603827A                            SOLDIER SYSTEMS--ADVANCED                   27,681          27,681
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
    66    0604017A                            ROBOTICS DEVELOPMENT..............           3,024           3,024
    67    0604019A                            EXPANDED MISSION AREA MISSILE               97,018          97,018
                                               (EMAM).
    68    0604020A                            CROSS FUNCTIONAL TEAM (CFT)                117,557         117,557
                                               ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT &
                                               PROTOTYPING.
    69    0604035A                            LOW EARTH ORBIT (LEO) SATELLITE             38,851          38,851
                                               CAPABILITY.
    70    0604036A                            MULTI-DOMAIN SENSING SYSTEM (MDSS)         191,394         191,394
                                               ADV DEV.
    71    0604037A                            TACTICAL INTEL TARGETING ACCESS             10,626          10,626
                                               NODE (TITAN) ADV DEV.
    72    0604100A                            ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES..........          11,095          11,095
    73    0604101A                            SMALL UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLE                5,144           5,144
                                               (SUAV) (6.4).
    74    0604103A                            ELECTRONIC WARFARE PLANNING AND              2,260           2,260
                                               MANAGEMENT TOOL (EWPMT).
    75    0604113A                            FUTURE TACTICAL UNMANNED AIRCRAFT           53,143          53,143
                                               SYSTEM (FTUAS).
    76    0604114A                            LOWER TIER AIR MISSILE DEFENSE             816,663         816,663
                                               (LTAMD) SENSOR.
    77    0604115A                            TECHNOLOGY MATURATION INITIATIVES.         281,314         281,314
    78    0604117A                            MANEUVER--SHORT RANGE AIR DEFENSE          281,239         281,239
                                               (M-SHORAD).
    79    0604119A                            ARMY ADVANCED COMPONENT                    204,914         204,914
                                               DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPING.
    80    0604120A                            ASSURED POSITIONING, NAVIGATION             40,930          40,930
                                               AND TIMING (PNT).
    81    0604121A                            SYNTHETIC TRAINING ENVIRONMENT             109,714         109,714
                                               REFINEMENT & PROTOTYPING.
    82    0604134A                            COUNTER IMPROVISED-THREAT                   16,426          16,426
                                               DEMONSTRATION, PROTOTYPE
                                               DEVELOPMENT, AND TESTING.
    83    0604135A                            STRATEGIC MID-RANGE FIRES.........          31,559          31,559
    84    0604182A                            HYPERSONICS.......................          43,435          43,435
    85    0604403A                            FUTURE INTERCEPTOR................           8,040           8,040
    86    0604531A                            COUNTER--SMALL UNMANNED AIRCRAFT            64,242          64,242
                                               SYSTEMS ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT.
    87    0604541A                            UNIFIED NETWORK TRANSPORT.........          40,915          40,915
  9999    9999999999                          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...............          19,200          19,200
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT              4,420,315       4,420,315
                                               DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES.
          ..................................
          ..................................  SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
    91    0604201A                            AIRCRAFT AVIONICS.................          13,673          13,673
    92    0604270A                            ELECTRONIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT....          12,789          12,789
    93    0604601A                            INFANTRY SUPPORT WEAPONS..........          64,076          64,076
    94    0604604A                            MEDIUM TACTICAL VEHICLES..........          28,226          28,226
    95    0604611A                            JAVELIN...........................           7,827           7,827
    96    0604622A                            FAMILY OF HEAVY TACTICAL VEHICLES.          44,197          44,197
    97    0604633A                            AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL...............           1,134           1,134
    98    0604641A                            TACTICAL UNMANNED GROUND VEHICLE           142,125         142,125
                                               (TUGV).
    99    0604642A                            LIGHT TACTICAL WHEELED VEHICLES...          53,564          53,564
   100    0604645A                            ARMORED SYSTEMS MODERNIZATION              102,201         102,201
                                               (ASM)--ENG DEV.
   101    0604710A                            NIGHT VISION SYSTEMS--ENG DEV.....          48,720          56,220
          ..................................  Enhanced Night Vision Goggle--                             [7,500]
                                               Binocular capability enhancements.
   102    0604713A                            COMBAT FEEDING, CLOTHING, AND                2,223           2,223
                                               EQUIPMENT.
   103    0604715A                            NON-SYSTEM TRAINING DEVICES--ENG            21,441          21,441
                                               DEV.
   104    0604741A                            AIR DEFENSE COMMAND, CONTROL AND            74,738          74,738
                                               INTELLIGENCE--ENG DEV.
   105    0604742A                            CONSTRUCTIVE SIMULATION SYSTEMS             30,985          30,985
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
   106    0604746A                            AUTOMATIC TEST EQUIPMENT                    13,626          13,626
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
   107    0604760A                            DISTRIBUTIVE INTERACTIVE                     8,802           8,802
                                               SIMULATIONS (DIS)--ENG DEV.
   108    0604798A                            BRIGADE ANALYSIS, INTEGRATION AND           20,828          20,828
                                               EVALUATION.
   109    0604802A                            WEAPONS AND MUNITIONS--ENG DEV....         243,851         243,851
   110    0604804A                            LOGISTICS AND ENGINEER EQUIPMENT--          37,420          42,420
                                               ENG DEV.
          ..................................  Ultra-Lightweight Camouflage Net                           [5,000]
                                               System.
   111    0604805A                            COMMAND, CONTROL, COMMUNICATIONS            34,214          34,214
                                               SYSTEMS--ENG DEV.
   112    0604807A                            MEDICAL MATERIEL/MEDICAL                     6,496           6,496
                                               BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE EQUIPMENT--ENG
                                               DEV.
   113    0604808A                            LANDMINE WARFARE/BARRIER--ENG DEV.          13,581          13,581
   114    0604818A                            ARMY TACTICAL COMMAND & CONTROL            168,574         168,574
                                               HARDWARE & SOFTWARE.
   115    0604820A                            RADAR DEVELOPMENT.................          94,944          94,944
   116    0604822A                            GENERAL FUND ENTERPRISE BUSINESS             2,965           2,965
                                               SYSTEM (GFEBS).
   117    0604827A                            SOLDIER SYSTEMS--WARRIOR DEM/VAL..          11,333          11,333
   118    0604852A                            SUITE OF SURVIVABILITY ENHANCEMENT          79,250          79,250
                                               SYSTEMS--EMD.
   119    0604854A                            ARTILLERY SYSTEMS--EMD............          42,490          42,490
   120    0605013A                            INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT         104,024         104,024
   121    0605018A                            INTEGRATED PERSONNEL AND PAY               102,084         102,084
                                               SYSTEM-ARMY (IPPS-A).
   123    0605030A                            JOINT TACTICAL NETWORK CENTER               18,662          18,662
                                               (JTNC).
   124    0605031A                            JOINT TACTICAL NETWORK (JTN)......          30,328          30,328
   125    0605035A                            COMMON INFRARED COUNTERMEASURES             11,509          11,509
                                               (CIRCM).
   126    0605036A                            COMBATING WEAPONS OF MASS                    1,050           1,050
                                               DESTRUCTION (CWMD).
   128    0605041A                            DEFENSIVE CYBER TOOL DEVELOPMENT..          27,714          27,714
   129    0605042A                            TACTICAL NETWORK RADIO SYSTEMS               4,318           4,318
                                               (LOW-TIER).
   130    0605047A                            CONTRACT WRITING SYSTEM...........          16,355          16,355
   131    0605049A                            MISSILE WARNING SYSTEM                      27,571          27,571
                                               MODERNIZATION (MWSM).
   132    0605051A                            AIRCRAFT SURVIVABILITY DEVELOPMENT          24,900          24,900
   133    0605052A                            INDIRECT FIRE PROTECTION                   196,248         196,248
                                               CAPABILITY INC 2--BLOCK 1.
   134    0605053A                            GROUND ROBOTICS...................          35,319          35,319
   135    0605054A                            EMERGING TECHNOLOGY INITIATIVES...         201,274         201,274
   137    0605144A                            NEXT GENERATION LOAD DEVICE--               36,970          36,970
                                               MEDIUM.
   139    0605148A                            TACTICAL INTEL TARGETING ACCESS            132,136         132,136
                                               NODE (TITAN) EMD.
   140    0605203A                            ARMY SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &                   81,657          81,657
                                               DEMONSTRATION.
   141    0605205A                            SMALL UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLE               31,284          31,284
                                               (SUAV) (6.5).
   142    0605206A                            CI AND HUMINT EQUIPMENT PROGRAM-             2,170           2,170
                                               ARMY (CIHEP-A).
   143    0605216A                            JOINT TARGETING INTEGRATED COMMAND           9,290           9,290
                                               AND COORDINATION SUITE (JTIC2S).
   144    0605224A                            MULTI-DOMAIN INTELLIGENCE.........          41,003          41,003
   146    0605231A                            PRECISION STRIKE MISSILE (PRSM)...         272,786         272,786
   147    0605232A                            HYPERSONICS EMD...................         900,920         900,920
   148    0605233A                            ACCESSIONS INFORMATION ENVIRONMENT          27,361          27,361
                                               (AIE).
   149    0605235A                            STRATEGIC MID-RANGE CAPABILITY....         348,855         348,855
   150    0605236A                            INTEGRATED TACTICAL COMMUNICATIONS          22,901          22,901
   151    0605450A                            JOINT AIR-TO-GROUND MISSILE (JAGM)           3,014           3,014
   152    0605457A                            ARMY INTEGRATED AIR AND MISSILE            284,095         284,095
                                               DEFENSE (AIAMD).
   153    0605531A                            COUNTER--SMALL UNMANNED AIRCRAFT            36,016          36,016
                                               SYSTEMS SYS DEV & DEMONSTRATION.
   154    0605625A                            MANNED GROUND VEHICLE.............         996,653         996,653
   155    0605766A                            NATIONAL CAPABILITIES INTEGRATION           15,129          15,129
                                               (MIP).
   156    0605812A                            JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE                27,243          27,243
                                               (JLTV) ENGINEERING AND
                                               MANUFACTURING DEVELOPMENT PH.
   157    0605830A                            AVIATION GROUND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.           1,167           1,167
   158    0303032A                            TROJAN--RH12......................           3,879           3,879
   159    0304270A                            ELECTRONIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT....         137,186         137,186
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &            5,639,364       5,651,864
                                               DEMONSTRATION.
          ..................................
          ..................................  MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
   160    0604256A                            THREAT SIMULATOR DEVELOPMENT......          38,492          38,492
   161    0604258A                            TARGET SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT........          11,873          11,873
   162    0604759A                            MAJOR T&E INVESTMENT..............          76,167          76,167
   163    0605103A                            RAND ARROYO CENTER................          37,078          37,078
   164    0605301A                            ARMY KWAJALEIN ATOLL..............         314,872         314,872
   165    0605326A                            CONCEPTS EXPERIMENTATION PROGRAM..          95,551          95,551
   167    0605601A                            ARMY TEST RANGES AND FACILITIES...         439,118         449,118
          ..................................  Radar Range Replacement Program...                        [10,000]
   168    0605602A                            ARMY TECHNICAL TEST                         42,220          42,220
                                               INSTRUMENTATION AND TARGETS.
   169    0605604A                            SURVIVABILITY/LETHALITY ANALYSIS..          37,518          37,518
   170    0605606A                            AIRCRAFT CERTIFICATION............           2,718           2,718
   172    0605706A                            MATERIEL SYSTEMS ANALYSIS.........          26,902          26,902
   173    0605709A                            EXPLOITATION OF FOREIGN ITEMS.....           7,805           7,805
   174    0605712A                            SUPPORT OF OPERATIONAL TESTING....          75,133          75,133
   175    0605716A                            ARMY EVALUATION CENTER............          71,118          71,118
   176    0605718A                            ARMY MODELING & SIM X-CMD                   11,204          11,204
                                               COLLABORATION & INTEG.
   177    0605801A                            PROGRAMWIDE ACTIVITIES............          93,895          93,895
   178    0605803A                            TECHNICAL INFORMATION ACTIVITIES..          31,327          31,327
   179    0605805A                            MUNITIONS STANDARDIZATION,                  50,409          50,409
                                               EFFECTIVENESS AND SAFETY.
   180    0605857A                            ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY TECHNOLOGY             1,629           1,629
                                               MGMT SUPPORT.
   181    0605898A                            ARMY DIRECT REPORT HEADQUARTERS--           55,843          55,843
                                               R&D - MHA.
   182    0606002A                            RONALD REAGAN BALLISTIC MISSILE             91,340          91,340
                                               DEFENSE TEST SITE.
   183    0606003A                            COUNTERINTEL AND HUMAN INTEL                 6,348           6,348
                                               MODERNIZATION.
   185    0606942A                            ASSESSMENTS AND EVALUATIONS CYBER            6,025           6,025
                                               VULNERABILITIES.
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT.......       1,624,585       1,634,585
          ..................................
          ..................................  OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
   187    0603778A                            MLRS PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM..          14,465          14,465
   188    0605024A                            ANTI-TAMPER TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT....           7,472           7,472
   189    0607131A                            WEAPONS AND MUNITIONS PRODUCT                8,425           8,425
                                               IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMS.
   190    0607136A                            BLACKHAWK PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT                1,507          11,507
                                               PROGRAM.
          ..................................  Program increase..................                        [10,000]
   191    0607137A                            CHINOOK PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT                  9,265          19,265
                                               PROGRAM.
          ..................................  Program increase..................                        [10,000]
   192    0607139A                            IMPROVED TURBINE ENGINE PROGRAM...         201,247         201,247
   193    0607142A                            AVIATION ROCKET SYSTEM PRODUCT               3,014           3,014
                                               IMPROVEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT.
   194    0607143A                            UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEM UNIVERSAL          25,393          25,393
                                               PRODUCTS.
   195    0607145A                            APACHE FUTURE DEVELOPMENT.........          10,547          20,547
          ..................................  Apache future development program                         [10,000]
                                               increase.
   196    0607148A                            AN/TPQ-53 COUNTERFIRE TARGET                54,167          54,167
                                               ACQUISITION RADAR SYSTEM.
   197    0607150A                            INTEL CYBER DEVELOPMENT...........           4,345           4,345
   198    0607312A                            ARMY OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS                    19,000          19,000
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
   199    0607313A                            ELECTRONIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT....           6,389           6,389
   200    0607315A                            ENDURING TURBINE ENGINES AND POWER           2,411           2,411
                                               SYSTEMS.
   201    0607665A                            FAMILY OF BIOMETRICS..............             797             797
   202    0607865A                            PATRIOT PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT.......         177,197         177,197
   203    0203728A                            JOINT AUTOMATED DEEP OPERATION              42,177          42,177
                                               COORDINATION SYSTEM (JADOCS).
   204    0203735A                            COMBAT VEHICLE IMPROVEMENT                 146,635         146,635
                                               PROGRAMS.
   205    0203743A                            155MM SELF-PROPELLED HOWITZER              122,902         122,902
                                               IMPROVEMENTS.
   207    0203752A                            AIRCRAFT ENGINE COMPONENT                      146             146
                                               IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.
   208    0203758A                            DIGITIZATION......................           1,515           1,515
   209    0203801A                            MISSILE/AIR DEFENSE PRODUCT                  4,520           4,520
                                               IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.
   210    0203802A                            OTHER MISSILE PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT           10,044          10,044
                                               PROGRAMS.
   211    0205412A                            ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY TECHNOLOGY--             281             281
                                               OPERATIONAL SYSTEM DEV.
   212    0205778A                            GUIDED MULTIPLE-LAUNCH ROCKET               75,952          75,952
                                               SYSTEM (GMLRS).
   213    0208053A                            JOINT TACTICAL GROUND SYSTEM......             203             203
   216    0303028A                            SECURITY AND INTELLIGENCE                      301             301
                                               ACTIVITIES.
   217    0303140A                            INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY                15,323          15,323
                                               PROGRAM.
   218    0303141A                            GLOBAL COMBAT SUPPORT SYSTEM......          13,082          13,082
   219    0303142A                            SATCOM GROUND ENVIRONMENT (SPACE).          26,838          26,838
   222    0305179A                            INTEGRATED BROADCAST SERVICE (IBS)           9,456           9,456
   225    0305219A                            MQ-1C GRAY EAGLE UAS..............           6,629           6,629
   227    0708045A                            END ITEM INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS            75,317          75,317
                                               ACTIVITIES.
  9999    9999999999                          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...............           8,786           8,786
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS             1,105,748       1,135,748
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
          ..................................
          ..................................  SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY
                                               PILOT PROGRAMS
   228    0608041A                            DEFENSIVE CYBER--SOFTWARE                   83,570          83,570
                                               PROTOTYPE DEVELOPMENT.
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL               83,570          83,570
                                               TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAMS.
          ..................................
          ..................................  TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST       15,775,381      15,919,881
                                               & EVAL, ARMY.
          ..................................
          ..................................  RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
                                               EVAL, NAVY
          ..................................  BASIC RESEARCH
     1    0601103N                            UNIVERSITY RESEARCH INITIATIVES...          96,355          96,355
     2    0601153N                            DEFENSE RESEARCH SCIENCES.........         540,908         540,908
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL BASIC RESEARCH...........         637,263         637,263
          ..................................
          ..................................  APPLIED RESEARCH
     3    0602114N                            POWER PROJECTION APPLIED RESEARCH.          23,982          23,982
     4    0602123N                            FORCE PROTECTION APPLIED RESEARCH.         142,148         142,148
     5    0602131M                            MARINE CORPS LANDING FORCE                  59,208          59,208
                                               TECHNOLOGY.
     6    0602235N                            COMMON PICTURE APPLIED RESEARCH...          52,090          52,090
     7    0602236N                            WARFIGHTER SUSTAINMENT APPLIED              74,722          82,722
                                               RESEARCH.
          ..................................  Research on foreign malign                                 [8,000]
                                               influence operations.
     8    0602271N                            ELECTROMAGNETIC SYSTEMS APPLIED             92,473          92,473
                                               RESEARCH.
     9    0602435N                            OCEAN WARFIGHTING ENVIRONMENT               80,806          87,806
                                               APPLIED RESEARCH.
          ..................................  Intelligent Autonomous Systems for                         [7,000]
                                               Seabed Warfare.
    10    0602651M                            JOINT NON-LETHAL WEAPONS APPLIED             7,419           7,419
                                               RESEARCH.
    11    0602747N                            UNDERSEA WARFARE APPLIED RESEARCH.          61,503          61,503
    12    0602750N                            FUTURE NAVAL CAPABILITIES APPLIED          182,662         182,662
                                               RESEARCH.
    13    0602782N                            MINE AND EXPEDITIONARY WARFARE              30,435          30,435
                                               APPLIED RESEARCH.
    14    0602792N                            INNOVATIVE NAVAL PROTOTYPES (INP)          133,828         133,828
                                               APPLIED RESEARCH.
    15    0602861N                            SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT--         85,063          85,063
                                               ONR FIELD ACITIVITIES.
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL APPLIED RESEARCH.........       1,026,339       1,041,339
          ..................................
          ..................................  ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
    16    0603123N                            FORCE PROTECTION ADVANCED                   29,512          29,512
                                               TECHNOLOGY.
    17    0603271N                            ELECTROMAGNETIC SYSTEMS ADVANCED             8,418           8,418
                                               TECHNOLOGY.
    18    0603273N                            SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY FOR NUCLEAR           112,329         112,329
                                               RE-ENTRY SYSTEMS.
    19    0603640M                            USMC ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY                   308,217         323,217
                                               DEMONSTRATION (ATD).
          ..................................  Adaptive Future Force.............                         [5,000]
          ..................................  Hardware In the Loop capabilities.                         [5,000]
          ..................................  Next generation unmanned aerial                            [5,000]
                                               system distribution platform.
    20    0603651M                            JOINT NON-LETHAL WEAPONS                    15,556          15,556
                                               TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT.
    21    0603673N                            FUTURE NAVAL CAPABILITIES ADVANCED         264,700         264,700
                                               TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT.
    22    0603680N                            MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM..          61,843          61,843
    23    0603729N                            WARFIGHTER PROTECTION ADVANCED               5,100           9,100
                                               TECHNOLOGY.
          ..................................  Balloon catheter hemorrhage                                [4,000]
                                               control device.
    24    0603758N                            NAVY WARFIGHTING EXPERIMENTS AND            75,898          75,898
                                               DEMONSTRATIONS.
    25    0603782N                            MINE AND EXPEDITIONARY WARFARE               2,048           2,048
                                               ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY.
    26    0603801N                            INNOVATIVE NAVAL PROTOTYPES (INP)          132,931         132,931
                                               ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT.
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY             1,016,552       1,035,552
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
          ..................................
          ..................................  ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &
                                               PROTOTYPES
    27    0603128N                            UNMANNED AERIAL SYSTEM............         108,225         108,225
    28    0603178N                            LARGE UNMANNED SURFACE VEHICLES            117,400         117,400
                                               (LUSV).
    29    0603207N                            AIR/OCEAN TACTICAL APPLICATIONS...          40,653          40,653
    30    0603216N                            AVIATION SURVIVABILITY............          20,874          20,874
    31    0603239N                            NAVAL CONSTRUCTION FORCES.........           7,821           7,821
    32    0603254N                            ASW SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT...........          17,090          17,090
    33    0603261N                            TACTICAL AIRBORNE RECONNAISSANCE..           3,721           3,721
    34    0603382N                            ADVANCED COMBAT SYSTEMS TECHNOLOGY           6,216           6,216
    35    0603502N                            SURFACE AND SHALLOW WATER MINE              34,690          34,690
                                               COUNTERMEASURES.
    36    0603506N                            SURFACE SHIP TORPEDO DEFENSE......             730             730
    37    0603512N                            CARRIER SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT.......           6,095           6,095
    38    0603525N                            PILOT FISH........................         916,208         916,208
    39    0603527N                            RETRACT LARCH.....................           7,545           7,545
    40    0603536N                            RETRACT JUNIPER...................         271,109         271,109
    41    0603542N                            RADIOLOGICAL CONTROL..............             811             811
    42    0603553N                            SURFACE ASW.......................           1,189           1,189
    43    0603561N                            ADVANCED SUBMARINE SYSTEM                   88,415          88,415
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
    44    0603562N                            SUBMARINE TACTICAL WARFARE SYSTEMS          15,119          15,119
    45    0603563N                            SHIP CONCEPT ADVANCED DESIGN......          89,939          89,939
    46    0603564N                            SHIP PRELIMINARY DESIGN &                  121,402         121,402
                                               FEASIBILITY STUDIES.
    47    0603570N                            ADVANCED NUCLEAR POWER SYSTEMS....         319,656         319,656
    48    0603573N                            ADVANCED SURFACE MACHINERY SYSTEMS         133,911         133,911
    49    0603576N                            CHALK EAGLE.......................         116,078         116,078
    50    0603581N                            LITTORAL COMBAT SHIP (LCS)........          32,615          32,615
    51    0603582N                            COMBAT SYSTEM INTEGRATION.........          18,610          18,610
    52    0603595N                            OHIO REPLACEMENT..................         257,076         262,076
          ..................................  Advanced composites for wet                                [5,000]
                                               submarine applications.
    53    0603596N                            LCS MISSION MODULES...............          31,464          31,464
    54    0603597N                            AUTOMATED TEST AND RE-TEST (ATRT).          10,809          10,809
    55    0603599N                            FRIGATE DEVELOPMENT...............         112,972         112,972
    56    0603609N                            CONVENTIONAL MUNITIONS............           9,030           9,030
    57    0603635M                            MARINE CORPS GROUND COMBAT/SUPPORT         128,782         128,782
                                               SYSTEM.
    58    0603654N                            JOINT SERVICE EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE            44,766          44,766
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
    59    0603713N                            OCEAN ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY                10,751          10,751
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
    60    0603721N                            ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION..........          24,457          24,457
    61    0603724N                            NAVY ENERGY PROGRAM...............          72,214          72,214
    62    0603725N                            FACILITIES IMPROVEMENT............          10,149          10,149
    63    0603734N                            CHALK CORAL.......................         687,841         687,841
    64    0603739N                            NAVY LOGISTIC PRODUCTIVITY........           4,712           4,712
    65    0603746N                            RETRACT MAPLE.....................         420,455         420,455
    66    0603748N                            LINK PLUMERIA.....................       2,100,474       2,100,474
    67    0603751N                            RETRACT ELM.......................          88,036          88,036
    68    0603764M                            LINK EVERGREEN....................         547,005         547,005
    69    0603790N                            NATO RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.....           6,265           6,265
    70    0603795N                            LAND ATTACK TECHNOLOGY............           1,624           1,624
    71    0603851M                            JOINT NON-LETHAL WEAPONS TESTING..          31,058          31,058
    72    0603860N                            JOINT PRECISION APPROACH AND                22,590          22,590
                                               LANDING SYSTEMS--DEM/VAL.
    73    0603925N                            DIRECTED ENERGY AND ELECTRIC                52,129          52,129
                                               WEAPON SYSTEMS.
    74    0604014N                            F/A -18 INFRARED SEARCH AND TRACK           32,127          32,127
                                               (IRST).
    75    0604027N                            DIGITAL WARFARE OFFICE............         181,001         181,001
    76    0604028N                            SMALL AND MEDIUM UNMANNED UNDERSEA         110,506         110,506
                                               VEHICLES.
    77    0604029N                            UNMANNED UNDERSEA VEHICLE CORE              71,156          71,156
                                               TECHNOLOGIES.
    78    0604030N                            RAPID PROTOTYPING, EXPERIMENTATION         214,100         214,100
                                               AND DEMONSTRATION..
    79    0604031N                            LARGE UNMANNED UNDERSEA VEHICLES..           6,900           6,900
    80    0604112N                            GERALD R. FORD CLASS NUCLEAR               118,182         118,182
                                               AIRCRAFT CARRIER (CVN 78--80).
    82    0604127N                            SURFACE MINE COUNTERMEASURES......          16,127          16,127
    83    0604272N                            TACTICAL AIR DIRECTIONAL INFRARED           34,684          34,684
                                               COUNTERMEASURES (TADIRCM).
    84    0604289M                            NEXT GENERATION LOGISTICS.........           5,991           5,991
    85    0604292N                            FUTURE VERTICAL LIFT (MARITIME               2,100           2,100
                                               STRIKE).
    86    0604320M                            RAPID TECHNOLOGY CAPABILITY                131,763         131,763
                                               PROTOTYPE.
    87    0604454N                            LX (R)............................          21,319          21,319
    88    0604536N                            ADVANCED UNDERSEA PROTOTYPING.....         104,328         104,328
    89    0604636N                            COUNTER UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS           11,567          11,567
                                               (C-UAS).
    90    0604659N                            PRECISION STRIKE WEAPONS                     5,976         195,976
                                               DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.
          ..................................  Nuclear-armed sea-launched cruise                        [190,000]
                                               missile.
    91    0604707N                            SPACE AND ELECTRONIC WARFARE (SEW)           9,993           9,993
                                               ARCHITECTURE/ENGINEERING SUPPORT.
    92    0604786N                            OFFENSIVE ANTI-SURFACE WARFARE             237,655         237,655
                                               WEAPON DEVELOPMENT.
    93    0605512N                            MEDIUM UNMANNED SURFACE VEHICLES            85,800          85,800
                                               (MUSVS)).
    94    0605513N                            UNMANNED SURFACE VEHICLE ENABLING          176,261         176,261
                                               CAPABILITIES.
    95    0605514M                            GROUND BASED ANTI-SHIP MISSILE....          36,383          36,383
    96    0605516M                            LONG RANGE FIRES..................          36,763          36,763
    97    0605518N                            CONVENTIONAL PROMPT STRIKE (CPS)..         901,064         901,064
    98    0303354N                            ASW SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT--MIP......          10,167          10,167
    99    0304240M                            ADVANCED TACTICAL UNMANNED                     539             539
                                               AIRCRAFT SYSTEM.
   100    0304270N                            ELECTRONIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT--             1,250           1,250
                                               MIP.
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT              9,734,483       9,929,483
                                               DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES.
          ..................................
          ..................................  SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
   101    0603208N                            TRAINING SYSTEM AIRCRAFT..........          44,120          44,120
   102    0604038N                            MARITIME TARGETING CELL...........          30,922          30,922
   103    0604212M                            OTHER HELO DEVELOPMENT............         101,209         101,209
   104    0604212N                            OTHER HELO DEVELOPMENT............           2,604           2,604
   105    0604214M                            AV-8B AIRCRAFT--ENG DEV...........           8,263           8,263
   106    0604215N                            STANDARDS DEVELOPMENT.............           4,039           4,039
   107    0604216N                            MULTI-MISSION HELICOPTER UPGRADE            62,350          62,350
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
   108    0604221N                            P-3 MODERNIZATION PROGRAM.........             771             771
   109    0604230N                            WARFARE SUPPORT SYSTEM............         109,485         109,485
   110    0604231N                            COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEMS.......          87,457          87,457
   111    0604234N                            ADVANCED HAWKEYE..................         399,919         399,919
   112    0604245M                            H-1 UPGRADES......................          29,766          29,766
   113    0604261N                            ACOUSTIC SEARCH SENSORS...........          51,531          51,531
   114    0604262N                            V-22A.............................         137,597         137,597
   115    0604264N                            AIR CREW SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT......          42,155          42,155
   116    0604269N                            EA-18.............................         172,507         172,507
   117    0604270N                            ELECTRONIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT....         171,384         171,384
   118    0604273M                            EXECUTIVE HELO DEVELOPMENT........          35,376          35,376
   119    0604274N                            NEXT GENERATION JAMMER (NGJ)......          40,477          40,477
   120    0604280N                            JOINT TACTICAL RADIO SYSTEM--NAVY          451,397         451,397
                                               (JTRS-NAVY).
   121    0604282N                            NEXT GENERATION JAMMER (NGJ)               250,577         250,577
                                               INCREMENT II.
   122    0604307N                            SURFACE COMBATANT COMBAT SYSTEM            453,311         453,311
                                               ENGINEERING.
   124    0604329N                            SMALL DIAMETER BOMB (SDB).........          52,211          52,211
   125    0604366N                            STANDARD MISSILE IMPROVEMENTS.....         418,187         418,187
   126    0604373N                            AIRBORNE MCM......................          11,368          11,368
   127    0604378N                            NAVAL INTEGRATED FIRE CONTROL--             66,445          66,445
                                               COUNTER AIR SYSTEMS ENGINEERING.
   128    0604419N                            ADVANCED SENSORS APPLICATION                     0          13,000
                                               PROGRAM (ASAP).
          ..................................  Program increase..................                        [13,000]
   129    0604501N                            ADVANCED ABOVE WATER SENSORS......         115,396         115,396
   130    0604503N                            SSN-688 AND TRIDENT MODERNIZATION.          93,435          93,435
   131    0604504N                            AIR CONTROL.......................          42,656          42,656
   132    0604512N                            SHIPBOARD AVIATION SYSTEMS........          10,442          10,442
   133    0604518N                            COMBAT INFORMATION CENTER                   11,359          11,359
                                               CONVERSION.
   134    0604522N                            AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE RADAR               90,307          90,307
                                               (AMDR) SYSTEM.
   135    0604530N                            ADVANCED ARRESTING GEAR (AAG).....          10,658          10,658
   136    0604558N                            NEW DESIGN SSN....................         234,356         234,356
   137    0604562N                            SUBMARINE TACTICAL WARFARE SYSTEM.          71,516          71,516
   138    0604567N                            SHIP CONTRACT DESIGN/ LIVE FIRE             22,462          22,462
                                               T&E.
   139    0604574N                            NAVY TACTICAL COMPUTER RESOURCES..           4,279           4,279
   140    0604601N                            MINE DEVELOPMENT..................         104,731         104,731
   141    0604610N                            LIGHTWEIGHT TORPEDO DEVELOPMENT...         229,668         229,668
   142    0604654N                            JOINT SERVICE EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE             9,064           9,064
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
   143    0604657M                            USMC GROUND COMBAT/SUPPORTING ARMS          62,329          62,329
                                               SYSTEMS--ENG DEV.
   144    0604703N                            PERSONNEL, TRAINING, SIMULATION,             9,319           9,319
                                               AND HUMAN FACTORS.
   145    0604727N                            JOINT STANDOFF WEAPON SYSTEMS.....           1,964           1,964
   146    0604755N                            SHIP SELF DEFENSE (DETECT &                158,426         158,426
                                               CONTROL).
   147    0604756N                            SHIP SELF DEFENSE (ENGAGE: HARD             47,492          47,492
                                               KILL).
   148    0604757N                            SHIP SELF DEFENSE (ENGAGE: SOFT            125,206         125,206
                                               KILL/EW).
   149    0604761N                            INTELLIGENCE ENGINEERING..........          19,969          19,969
   150    0604771N                            MEDICAL DEVELOPMENT...............           6,061           6,061
   151    0604777N                            NAVIGATION/ID SYSTEM..............          45,262          45,262
   154    0604850N                            SSN(X)............................         361,582         361,582
   155    0605013M                            INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT          22,663          22,663
   156    0605013N                            INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT         282,138         282,138
   157    0605024N                            ANTI-TAMPER TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT....           8,340           8,340
   158    0605180N                            TACAMO MODERNIZATION..............         213,743         213,743
   159    0605212M                            CH-53K RDTE.......................         222,288         222,288
   160    0605215N                            MISSION PLANNING..................          86,448          86,448
   161    0605217N                            COMMON AVIONICS...................          81,076          81,076
   162    0605220N                            SHIP TO SHORE CONNECTOR (SSC).....           1,343           1,343
   163    0605327N                            T-AO 205 CLASS....................              71              71
   164    0605414N                            UNMANNED CARRIER AVIATION (UCA)...         220,404         220,404
   165    0605450M                            JOINT AIR-TO-GROUND MISSILE (JAGM)             384             384
   166    0605500N                            MULTI-MISSION MARITIME AIRCRAFT             36,027          36,027
                                               (MMA).
   167    0605504N                            MULTI-MISSION MARITIME (MMA)               132,449         132,449
                                               INCREMENT III.
   168    0605611M                            MARINE CORPS ASSAULT VEHICLES              103,236         103,236
                                               SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &
                                               DEMONSTRATION.
   169    0605813M                            JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE                 2,609           2,609
                                               (JLTV) SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &
                                               DEMONSTRATION.
   170    0204202N                            DDG-1000..........................         231,778         231,778
   171    0301377N                            COUNTERING ADVANCED CONVENTIONAL            17,531          17,531
                                               WEAPONS (CACW).
   172    0304785N                            ISR & INFO OPERATIONS.............         174,271         174,271
   173    0306250M                            CYBER OPERATIONS TECHNOLOGY                  2,068           2,068
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &            6,962,234       6,975,234
                                               DEMONSTRATION.
          ..................................
          ..................................  MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
   174    0604256N                            THREAT SIMULATOR DEVELOPMENT......          22,918          22,918
   175    0604258N                            TARGET SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT........          18,623          18,623
   176    0604759N                            MAJOR T&E INVESTMENT..............          74,221          74,221
   177    0605152N                            STUDIES AND ANALYSIS SUPPORT--NAVY           3,229           3,229
   178    0605154N                            CENTER FOR NAVAL ANALYSES.........          45,672          45,672
   180    0605804N                            TECHNICAL INFORMATION SERVICES....           1,000           1,000
   181    0605853N                            MANAGEMENT, TECHNICAL &                    124,328         124,328
                                               INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT.
   182    0605856N                            STRATEGIC TECHNICAL SUPPORT.......           4,053           4,053
   183    0605863N                            RDT&E SHIP AND AIRCRAFT SUPPORT...         203,447         203,447
   184    0605864N                            TEST AND EVALUATION SUPPORT.......         481,975         484,975
          ..................................  Atlantic Undersea Test and                                 [3,000]
                                               Evaluation Center improvements.
   185    0605865N                            OPERATIONAL TEST AND EVALUATION             29,399          29,399
                                               CAPABILITY.
   186    0605866N                            NAVY SPACE AND ELECTRONIC WARFARE           27,504          27,504
                                               (SEW) SUPPORT.
   187    0605867N                            SEW SURVEILLANCE/RECONNAISSANCE              9,183           9,183
                                               SUPPORT.
   188    0605873M                            MARINE CORPS PROGRAM WIDE SUPPORT.          34,976          34,976
   189    0605898N                            MANAGEMENT HQ--R&D................          41,331          41,331
   190    0606355N                            WARFARE INNOVATION MANAGEMENT.....          37,340          37,340
   191    0305327N                            INSIDER THREAT....................           2,246           2,246
   192    0902498N                            MANAGEMENT HEADQUARTERS                      2,168           2,168
                                               (DEPARTMENTAL SUPPORT ACTIVITIES).
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT.......       1,163,613       1,166,613
          ..................................
          ..................................  OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
   196    0604840M                            F-35 C2D2.........................         544,625         544,625
   197    0604840N                            F-35 C2D2.........................         543,834         543,834
   198    0605520M                            MARINE CORPS AIR DEFENSE WEAPONS            99,860          99,860
                                               SYSTEMS.
   199    0607658N                            COOPERATIVE ENGAGEMENT CAPABILITY          153,440         153,440
                                               (CEC).
   200    0101221N                            STRATEGIC SUB & WEAPONS SYSTEM             321,648         331,648
                                               SUPPORT.
          ..................................  Fleet Ballistic Missile Strategic                         [10,000]
                                               Weapon System.
   201    0101224N                            SSBN SECURITY TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM..          62,694          62,694
   202    0101226N                            SUBMARINE ACOUSTIC WARFARE                  92,869          92,869
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
   203    0101402N                            NAVY STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS.....          51,919          51,919
   204    0204136N                            F/A-18 SQUADRONS..................         333,783         333,783
   205    0204228N                            SURFACE SUPPORT...................           8,619           8,619
   206    0204229N                            TOMAHAWK AND TOMAHAWK MISSION              122,834         122,834
                                               PLANNING CENTER (TMPC).
   207    0204311N                            INTEGRATED SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM....          76,279          76,279
   208    0204313N                            SHIP-TOWED ARRAY SURVEILLANCE                1,103           1,103
                                               SYSTEMS.
   209    0204413N                            AMPHIBIOUS TACTICAL SUPPORT UNITS            1,991           1,991
                                               (DISPLACEMENT CRAFT).
   210    0204460M                            GROUND/AIR TASK ORIENTED RADAR (G/          92,674          92,674
                                               ATOR).
   211    0204571N                            CONSOLIDATED TRAINING SYSTEMS              115,894         115,894
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
   212    0204575N                            ELECTRONIC WARFARE (EW) READINESS           61,677          61,677
                                               SUPPORT.
   213    0205601N                            ANTI-RADIATION MISSILE IMPROVEMENT          59,555          59,555
   214    0205620N                            SURFACE ASW COMBAT SYSTEM                   29,973          29,973
                                               INTEGRATION.
   215    0205632N                            MK-48 ADCAP.......................         213,165         213,165
   216    0205633N                            AVIATION IMPROVEMENTS.............         143,277         143,277
   217    0205675N                            OPERATIONAL NUCLEAR POWER SYSTEMS.         152,546         152,546
   218    0206313M                            MARINE CORPS COMMUNICATIONS                192,625         192,625
                                               SYSTEMS.
   219    0206335M                            COMMON AVIATION COMMAND AND                 12,565          12,565
                                               CONTROL SYSTEM (CAC2S).
   220    0206623M                            MARINE CORPS GROUND COMBAT/                 83,900          83,900
                                               SUPPORTING ARMS SYSTEMS.
   221    0206624M                            MARINE CORPS COMBAT SERVICES                27,794          27,794
                                               SUPPORT.
   222    0206625M                            USMC INTELLIGENCE/ELECTRONIC                47,762          47,762
                                               WARFARE SYSTEMS (MIP).
   223    0206629M                            AMPHIBIOUS ASSAULT VEHICLE........             373             373
   224    0207161N                            TACTICAL AIM MISSILES.............          36,439          36,439
   225    0207163N                            ADVANCED MEDIUM RANGE AIR-TO-AIR            29,198          29,198
                                               MISSILE (AMRAAM).
   226    0208043N                            PLANNING AND DECISION AID SYSTEM             3,565           3,565
                                               (PDAS).
   230    0303138N                            AFLOAT NETWORKS...................          49,995          49,995
   231    0303140N                            INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY                33,390          33,390
                                               PROGRAM.
   232    0305192N                            MILITARY INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM                7,304           7,304
                                               (MIP) ACTIVITIES.
   233    0305204N                            TACTICAL UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLES.          11,235          11,235
   234    0305205N                            UAS INTEGRATION AND                         16,409          16,409
                                               INTEROPERABILITY.
   235    0305208M                            DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND/SURFACE           51,192          51,192
                                               SYSTEMS.
   236    0305220N                            MQ-4C TRITON......................          12,094          12,094
   237    0305231N                            MQ-8 UAV..........................          29,700          29,700
   238    0305232M                            RQ-11 UAV.........................           2,107           2,107
   239    0305234N                            SMALL (LEVEL 0) TACTICAL UAS                 2,999           2,999
                                               (STUASL0).
   240    0305241N                            MULTI-INTELLIGENCE SENSOR                   49,460          49,460
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
   241    0305242M                            UNMANNED AERIAL SYSTEMS (UAS)               13,005          13,005
                                               PAYLOADS (MIP).
   242    0305251N                            CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS FORCES AND             2,000           2,000
                                               FORCE SUPPORT.
   243    0305421N                            RQ-4 MODERNIZATION................         300,378         300,378
   244    0307577N                            INTELLIGENCE MISSION DATA (IMD)...             788             788
   245    0308601N                            MODELING AND SIMULATION SUPPORT...          10,994          10,994
   246    0702207N                            DEPOT MAINTENANCE (NON-IF)........          23,248          23,248
   247    0708730N                            MARITIME TECHNOLOGY (MARITECH)....           3,284           3,284
  9999    9999999999                          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...............       2,021,376       2,021,376
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS             6,359,438       6,369,438
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
          ..................................
          ..................................  SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY
                                               PILOT PROGRAMS
   249    0608013N                            RISK MANAGEMENT INFORMATION--               11,748          11,748
                                               SOFTWARE PILOT PROGRAM.
   250    0608231N                            MARITIME TACTICAL COMMAND AND               10,555          10,555
                                               CONTROL (MTC2)--SOFTWARE PILOT
                                               PROGRAM.
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL               22,303          22,303
                                               TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAMS.
          ..................................
          ..................................  TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST       26,922,225      27,177,225
                                               & EVAL, NAVY.
          ..................................
          ..................................  RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
                                               EVAL, AF
          ..................................  BASIC RESEARCH
     1    0601102F                            DEFENSE RESEARCH SCIENCES.........         401,486         401,486
     2    0601103F                            UNIVERSITY RESEARCH INITIATIVES...         182,372         182,372
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL BASIC RESEARCH...........         583,858         583,858
          ..................................
          ..................................  APPLIED RESEARCH
     3    0602020F                            FUTURE AF CAPABILITIES APPLIED              90,713          90,713
                                               RESEARCH.
     4    0602022F                            UNIVERSITY AFFILIATED RESEARCH               8,018           8,018
                                               CENTER (UARC)--TACTICAL AUTONOMY.
     5    0602102F                            MATERIALS.........................         142,325         151,325
          ..................................  Advanced materials science for                             [9,000]
                                               manufacturing research.
     6    0602201F                            AEROSPACE VEHICLE TECHNOLOGIES....         161,268         161,268
     7    0602202F                            HUMAN EFFECTIVENESS APPLIED                146,921         146,921
                                               RESEARCH.
     8    0602203F                            AEROSPACE PROPULSION..............         184,867         184,867
     9    0602204F                            AEROSPACE SENSORS.................         216,269         216,269
    11    0602298F                            SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT--         10,303          10,303
                                                MAJOR HEADQUARTERS ACTIVITIES.
    12    0602602F                            CONVENTIONAL MUNITIONS............         160,599         160,599
    13    0602605F                            DIRECTED ENERGY TECHNOLOGY........         129,961         118,452
          ..................................  DAF requested realignment of funds                       [-11,509]
                                               to 6601SF.
    14    0602788F                            DOMINANT INFORMATION SCIENCES AND          182,076         220,076
                                               METHODS.
          ..................................  Distributed quantum information                            [5,000]
                                               sciences networking testbed.
          ..................................  Future Flag experimentation                               [15,000]
                                               testbed.
          ..................................  Ion trapped quantum information                            [8,000]
                                               sciences computer.
          ..................................  Multi-domain radio frequency                               [5,000]
                                               spectrum testing environment.
          ..................................  Secure interference-avoiding                               [5,000]
                                               connectivity of autonomous
                                               artificially intelligent machines.
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL APPLIED RESEARCH.........       1,433,320       1,468,811
          ..................................
          ..................................  ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
    15    0603032F                            FUTURE AF INTEGRATED TECHNOLOGY            255,855         213,655
                                               DEMOS.
          ..................................  Program reduction.................                       [-42,200]
    16    0603112F                            ADVANCED MATERIALS FOR WEAPON               30,372          30,372
                                               SYSTEMS.
    17    0603199F                            SUSTAINMENT SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY          10,478          10,478
                                               (S&T).
    18    0603203F                            ADVANCED AEROSPACE SENSORS........          48,046          48,046
    19    0603211F                            AEROSPACE TECHNOLOGY DEV/DEMO.....          51,896          61,896
          ..................................  Semiautonomous adversary air                              [10,000]
                                               platform.
    20    0603216F                            AEROSPACE PROPULSION AND POWER              56,789          56,789
                                               TECHNOLOGY.
    21    0603270F                            ELECTRONIC COMBAT TECHNOLOGY......          32,510          32,510
    22    0603273F                            SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY FOR NUCLEAR            70,321          70,321
                                               RE-ENTRY SYSTEMS.
    23    0603444F                            MAUI SPACE SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM                   2               2
                                               (MSSS).
    24    0603456F                            HUMAN EFFECTIVENESS ADVANCED                15,593          15,593
                                               TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT.
    25    0603601F                            CONVENTIONAL WEAPONS TECHNOLOGY...         132,311         132,311
    26    0603605F                            ADVANCED WEAPONS TECHNOLOGY.......         102,997         102,997
    27    0603680F                            MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM..          44,422          49,422
          ..................................  Additive manufacturing for                                 [5,000]
                                               aerospace parts.
    28    0603788F                            BATTLESPACE KNOWLEDGE DEVELOPMENT           37,779          37,779
                                               AND DEMONSTRATION.
    29    0207412F                            CONTROL AND REPORTING CENTER (CRC)           2,005           2,005
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY               891,376         864,176
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
          ..................................
          ..................................  ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &
                                               PROTOTYPES
    30    0603036F                            MODULAR ADVANCED MISSILE..........         105,238         105,238
    31    0603260F                            INTELLIGENCE ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT.           6,237           6,237
    32    0603742F                            COMBAT IDENTIFICATION TECHNOLOGY..          21,298          21,298
    33    0603790F                            NATO RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.....           2,208           2,208
    34    0603851F                            INTERCONTINENTAL BALLISTIC                  45,319          75,319
                                               MISSILE--DEM/VAL.
          ..................................  Enhanced ICBM guidance capability                         [30,000]
                                               and testing.
    35    0604001F                            NC3 ADVANCED CONCEPTS.............          10,011          10,011
    37    0604003F                            ADVANCED BATTLE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM          500,575         500,575
                                               (ABMS).
    38    0604004F                            ADVANCED ENGINE DEVELOPMENT.......         595,352         595,352
    39    0604005F                            NC3 COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT &                78,799          78,799
                                               PROTOTYPING.
    40    0604006F                            DEPT OF THE AIR FORCE TECH                   2,620               0
                                               ARCHITECTURE.
          ..................................  DAF requested realignment of funds                        [-2,620]
                                               to 64858F.
    41    0604007F                            E-7...............................         681,039         681,039
    42    0604009F                            AFWERX PRIME......................          83,336          83,336
    43    0604015F                            LONG RANGE STRIKE--BOMBER.........       2,984,143       2,984,143
    44    0604025F                            RAPID DEFENSE EXPERIMENTATION              154,300         154,300
                                               RESERVE (RDER).
    45    0604032F                            DIRECTED ENERGY PROTOTYPING.......           1,246           1,246
    46    0604033F                            HYPERSONICS PROTOTYPING...........         150,340               0
          ..................................  Air-Launched Rapid Response Weapon                      [-150,340]
                                               reduction.
    47    0604183F                            HYPERSONICS PROTOTYPING--                  381,528         381,528
                                               HYPERSONIC ATTACK CRUISE MISSILE
                                               (HACM).
    48    0604201F                            PNT RESILIENCY, MODS, AND                   18,041          18,041
                                               IMPROVEMENTS.
    49    0604257F                            ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY AND SENSORS...          27,650          27,650
    50    0604288F                            SURVIVABLE AIRBORNE OPERATIONS             888,829         888,829
                                               CENTER (SAOC).
    51    0604317F                            TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER...............          26,638          26,638
    52    0604327F                            HARD AND DEEPLY BURIED TARGET               19,266          19,266
                                               DEFEAT SYSTEM (HDBTDS) PROGRAM.
    53    0604414F                            CYBER RESILIENCY OF WEAPON SYSTEMS-         37,121          37,121
                                               ACS.
    55    0604668F                            JOINT TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT             37,026          37,026
                                               SYSTEM (JTMS).
    56    0604776F                            DEPLOYMENT & DISTRIBUTION                   31,833          31,833
                                               ENTERPRISE R&D.
    57    0604858F                            TECH TRANSITION PROGRAM...........         210,806         235,476
          ..................................  DAF requested realignment of funds                        [17,550]
                                               from OMAF SAG 11R.
          ..................................  DAF requested realignment of funds                         [4,500]
                                               from OMAF SAG 11Z.
          ..................................  DAF requested realignment of funds                         [2,620]
                                               from RDAF 64006F.
    58    0604860F                            OPERATIONAL ENERGY AND                      46,305          46,305
                                               INSTALLATION RESILIENCE.
    59    0605164F                            AIR REFUELING CAPABILITY                    19,400          19,400
                                               MODERNIZATION.
    61    0207110F                            NEXT GENERATION AIR DOMINANCE.....       2,326,128       2,326,128
    62    0207179F                            AUTONOMOUS COLLABORATIVE PLATFORMS         118,826         101,013
          ..................................  DAF requested realignment of funds                       [-17,813]
    63    0207420F                            COMBAT IDENTIFICATION.............           1,902           1,902
    64    0207455F                            THREE DIMENSIONAL LONG-RANGE RADAR          19,763          19,763
                                               (3DELRR).
    65    0207522F                            AIRBASE AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS                 78,867          78,867
                                               (ABADS).
    66    0208030F                            WAR RESERVE MATERIEL--AMMUNITION..           8,175           8,175
    68    0305236F                            COMMON DATA LINK EXECUTIVE AGENT            25,157          25,157
                                               (CDL EA).
    69    0305601F                            MISSION PARTNER ENVIRONMENTS......          17,727          17,727
    72    0708051F                            RAPID SUSTAINMENT MODERNIZATION             43,431          43,431
                                               (RSM).
    73    0808737F                            INTEGRATED PRIMARY PREVENTION.....           9,364           9,364
    74    0901410F                            CONTRACTING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY          28,294          28,294
                                               SYSTEM.
    75    1206415F                            U.S. SPACE COMMAND RESEARCH AND             14,892          14,892
                                               DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT.
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT              9,859,030       9,742,927
                                               DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES.
          ..................................
          ..................................  SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
    76    0604200F                            FUTURE ADVANCED WEAPON ANALYSIS &            9,757           9,757
                                               PROGRAMS.
    77    0604201F                            PNT RESILIENCY, MODS, AND                  163,156         163,156
                                               IMPROVEMENTS.
    78    0604222F                            NUCLEAR WEAPONS SUPPORT...........          45,884          45,884
    79    0604270F                            ELECTRONIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT....          13,804          13,804
    80    0604281F                            TACTICAL DATA NETWORKS ENTERPRISE.          74,023          79,023
          ..................................  DAF requested realignment of funds                         [5,000]
    81    0604287F                            PHYSICAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT.......          10,605          10,605
    82    0604602F                            ARMAMENT/ORDNANCE DEVELOPMENT.....           5,918           5,918
    83    0604604F                            SUBMUNITIONS......................           3,345           3,345
    84    0604617F                            AGILE COMBAT SUPPORT..............          21,967          21,967
    85    0604706F                            LIFE SUPPORT SYSTEMS..............          39,301          39,301
    86    0604735F                            COMBAT TRAINING RANGES............         152,569         152,569
    87    0604932F                            LONG RANGE STANDOFF WEAPON........         911,406         891,406
          ..................................  DAF realignment of funds..........                       [-20,000]
    88    0604933F                            ICBM FUZE MODERNIZATION...........          71,732          71,732
    89    0605030F                            JOINT TACTICAL NETWORK CENTER                2,256           2,256
                                               (JTNC).
    90    0605031F                            JOINT TACTICAL NETWORK (JTN)......             452             452
    91    0605056F                            OPEN ARCHITECTURE MANAGEMENT......          36,582          36,582
    92    0605057F                            NEXT GENERATION AIR-REFUELING                7,928           7,928
                                               SYSTEM.
    93    0605223F                            ADVANCED PILOT TRAINING...........          77,252          77,252
    94    0605229F                            HH-60W............................          48,268          48,268
    95    0605238F                            GROUND BASED STRATEGIC DETERRENT         3,746,935       3,739,285
                                               EMD.
          ..................................  DAF requested realignment of funds                        [-7,650]
    96    0207171F                            F-15 EPAWSS.......................          13,982          13,982
    97    0207279F                            ISOLATED PERSONNEL SURVIVABILITY            56,225          56,225
                                               AND RECOVERY.
    98    0207328F                            STAND IN ATTACK WEAPON............         298,585         298,585
    99    0207701F                            FULL COMBAT MISSION TRAINING......           7,597           7,597
   100    0208036F                            MEDICAL C-CBRNE PROGRAMS..........           2,006           2,006
   102    0305205F                            ENDURANCE UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLES          30,000          30,000
   103    0401221F                            KC-46A TANKER SQUADRONS...........         124,662         124,662
   104    0401319F                            VC-25B............................         490,701         470,701
          ..................................  5G interference mitigation for                            [30,000]
                                               critical aircraft navigation and
                                               sensor systems on the
                                               Presidential Aircraft Fleet.
          ..................................  Program reduction.................                       [-50,000]
   105    0701212F                            AUTOMATED TEST SYSTEMS............          12,911          12,911
   106    0804772F                            TRAINING DEVELOPMENTS.............           1,922           1,922
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &            6,481,731       6,439,081
                                               DEMONSTRATION.
          ..................................
          ..................................  MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
   107    0604256F                            THREAT SIMULATOR DEVELOPMENT......          16,626          16,626
   108    0604759F                            MAJOR T&E INVESTMENT..............          31,143          31,143
   109    0605101F                            RAND PROJECT AIR FORCE............          38,398          38,398
   110    0605502F                            SMALL BUSINESS INNOVATION RESEARCH           1,466           1,466
   111    0605712F                            INITIAL OPERATIONAL TEST &                  13,736          13,736
                                               EVALUATION.
   112    0605807F                            TEST AND EVALUATION SUPPORT.......         913,213         946,026
          ..................................  DAF requested realignment of funds                        [32,813]
   113    0605827F                            ACQ WORKFORCE- GLOBAL VIG & COMBAT         317,901         317,901
                                               SYS.
   114    0605828F                            ACQ WORKFORCE- GLOBAL REACH.......         541,677         541,677
   115    0605829F                            ACQ WORKFORCE- CYBER, NETWORK, &           551,213         536,513
                                               BUS SYS.
          ..................................  DAF requested realignment of funds                       [-14,700]
   117    0605831F                            ACQ WORKFORCE- CAPABILITY                  243,780         273,780
                                               INTEGRATION.
          ..................................  DAF requested realignment of funds                        [30,000]
   118    0605832F                            ACQ WORKFORCE- ADVANCED PRGM               109,030          77,030
                                               TECHNOLOGY.
          ..................................  DAF requested realignment of funds                       [-32,000]
   119    0605833F                            ACQ WORKFORCE- NUCLEAR SYSTEMS....         336,788         336,788
   120    0605898F                            MANAGEMENT HQ--R&D................           5,005           6,705
          ..................................  DAF requested realignment of funds                         [1,700]
   121    0605976F                            FACILITIES RESTORATION AND                  87,889          87,889
                                               MODERNIZATION--TEST AND
                                               EVALUATION SUPPORT.
   122    0605978F                            FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT--TEST AND            35,065          35,065
                                               EVALUATION SUPPORT.
   123    0606017F                            REQUIREMENTS ANALYSIS AND                   89,956          89,956
                                               MATURATION.
   124    0606398F                            MANAGEMENT HQ--T&E................           7,453           7,453
   126    0303255F                            COMMAND, CONTROL, COMMUNICATION,            20,871          40,871
                                               AND COMPUTERS (C4)--STRATCOM.
          ..................................  NC3 network sensor demonstration..                        [10,000]
          ..................................  NC3 Rapid Engineering Architecture                        [10,000]
                                               Collaboration Hub (REACH).
   127    0308602F                            ENTEPRISE INFORMATION SERVICES             100,357         100,357
                                               (EIS).
   128    0702806F                            ACQUISITION AND MANAGEMENT SUPPORT          20,478          20,478
   129    0804731F                            GENERAL SKILL TRAINING............             796           6,796
          ..................................  Security Work Readiness for Duty..                         [6,000]
   132    1001004F                            INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES..........           3,917           3,917
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT.......       3,486,758       3,530,571
          ..................................
          ..................................  OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
   134    0604233F                            SPECIALIZED UNDERGRADUATE FLIGHT            41,464          41,464
                                               TRAINING.
   135    0604283F                            BATTLE MGMT COM & CTRL SENSOR               40,000          40,000
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
   136    0604445F                            WIDE AREA SURVEILLANCE............           8,018           8,018
   137    0604617F                            AGILE COMBAT SUPPORT..............           5,645           5,645
   139    0604840F                            F-35 C2D2.........................       1,275,268       1,270,268
          ..................................  DAF requested realignment of funds                        [-5,000]
   140    0605018F                            AF INTEGRATED PERSONNEL AND PAY             40,203          40,203
                                               SYSTEM (AF-IPPS).
   141    0605024F                            ANTI-TAMPER TECHNOLOGY EXECUTIVE            49,613          49,613
                                               AGENCY.
   142    0605117F                            FOREIGN MATERIEL ACQUISITION AND            93,881          93,881
                                               EXPLOITATION.
   143    0605278F                            HC/MC-130 RECAP RDT&E.............          36,536          36,536
   144    0606018F                            NC3 INTEGRATION...................          22,910          22,910
   145    0101113F                            B-52 SQUADRONS....................         950,815         964,832
          ..................................  DAF requested realignment of funds                        [14,017]
   146    0101122F                            AIR-LAUNCHED CRUISE MISSILE (ALCM)             290             290
   147    0101126F                            B-1B SQUADRONS....................          12,619          12,619
   148    0101127F                            B-2 SQUADRONS.....................          87,623          87,623
   149    0101213F                            MINUTEMAN SQUADRONS...............          33,237          33,237
   150    0101316F                            WORLDWIDE JOINT STRATEGIC                   24,653          24,653
                                               COMMUNICATIONS.
   151    0101318F                            SERVICE SUPPORT TO STRATCOM--                7,562           7,562
                                               GLOBAL STRIKE.
   153    0101328F                            ICBM REENTRY VEHICLES.............         475,415         475,415
   155    0102110F                            MH-139A...........................          25,737          25,737
   156    0102326F                            REGION/SECTOR OPERATION CONTROL                831             831
                                               CENTER MODERNIZATION PROGRAM.
   157    0102412F                            NORTH WARNING SYSTEM (NWS)........             102             102
   158    0102417F                            OVER-THE-HORIZON BACKSCATTER RADAR         428,754         428,754
   159    0202834F                            VEHICLES AND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT--            15,498          19,498
                                               GENERAL.
          ..................................  DAF requested realignment of funds                         [4,000]
   160    0205219F                            MQ-9 UAV..........................          81,123          81,123
   161    0205671F                            JOINT COUNTER RCIED ELECTRONIC               2,303           2,303
                                               WARFARE.
   162    0207040F                            MULTI-PLATFORM ELECTRONIC WARFARE            7,312           7,312
                                               EQUIPMENT.
   164    0207133F                            F-16 SQUADRONS....................          98,633          98,633
   165    0207134F                            F-15E SQUADRONS...................          50,965          50,965
   166    0207136F                            MANNED DESTRUCTIVE SUPPRESSION....          16,543          16,543
   167    0207138F                            F-22A SQUADRONS...................         725,889         725,889
   168    0207142F                            F-35 SQUADRONS....................          97,231          97,231
   169    0207146F                            F-15EX............................         100,006         100,006
   170    0207161F                            TACTICAL AIM MISSILES.............          41,958          41,958
   171    0207163F                            ADVANCED MEDIUM RANGE AIR-TO-AIR            53,679          53,679
                                               MISSILE (AMRAAM).
   172    0207227F                            COMBAT RESCUE--PARARESCUE.........             726             726
   173    0207238F                            E-11A.............................          64,888          64,888
   174    0207247F                            AF TENCAP.........................          25,749          25,749
   175    0207249F                            PRECISION ATTACK SYSTEMS                    11,872          11,872
                                               PROCUREMENT.
   176    0207253F                            COMPASS CALL......................          66,932          66,932
   177    0207268F                            AIRCRAFT ENGINE COMPONENT                   55,223          55,223
                                               IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.
   178    0207325F                            JOINT AIR-TO-SURFACE STANDOFF              132,937         132,937
                                               MISSILE (JASSM).
   179    0207327F                            SMALL DIAMETER BOMB (SDB).........          37,518          37,518
   180    0207410F                            AIR & SPACE OPERATIONS CENTER               72,059          72,059
                                               (AOC).
   181    0207412F                            CONTROL AND REPORTING CENTER (CRC)          17,498          17,498
   183    0207418F                            AFSPECWAR--TACP...................           2,106           2,106
   185    0207431F                            COMBAT AIR INTELLIGENCE SYSTEM              72,010          72,010
                                               ACTIVITIES.
   186    0207438F                            THEATER BATTLE MANAGEMENT (TBM)              6,467           6,467
                                               C4I.
   187    0207439F                            ELECTRONIC WARFARE INTEGRATED               10,388          10,388
                                               REPROGRAMMING (EWIR).
   188    0207444F                            TACTICAL AIR CONTROL PARTY-MOD....          10,060          10,060
   189    0207452F                            DCAPES............................           8,233           8,233
   190    0207521F                            AIR FORCE CALIBRATION PROGRAMS....           2,172           2,172
   192    0207573F                            NATIONAL TECHNICAL NUCLEAR                   2,049           2,049
                                               FORENSICS.
   193    0207590F                            SEEK EAGLE........................          33,478          33,478
   195    0207605F                            WARGAMING AND SIMULATION CENTERS..          11,894          11,894
   197    0207697F                            DISTRIBUTED TRAINING AND EXERCISES           3,811           3,811
   198    0208006F                            MISSION PLANNING SYSTEMS..........          96,272          96,272
   199    0208007F                            TACTICAL DECEPTION................          26,533          26,533
   201    0208087F                            DISTRIBUTED CYBER WARFARE                   50,122          50,122
                                               OPERATIONS.
   202    0208088F                            AF DEFENSIVE CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS         113,064         113,064
   208    0208288F                            INTEL DATA APPLICATIONS...........             967             967
   209    0301025F                            GEOBASE...........................           1,514           1,514
   211    0301113F                            CYBER SECURITY INTELLIGENCE                  8,476           8,476
                                               SUPPORT.
   218    0301401F                            AF MULTI-DOMAIN NON-TRADITIONAL              2,890           3,390
                                               ISR BATTLESPACE AWARENESS.
          ..................................  Military Cyber Cooperation                                   [500]
                                               Activities with the Kingdom of
                                               Jordan.
   219    0302015F                            E-4B NATIONAL AIRBORNE OPERATIONS           39,868          39,868
                                               CENTER (NAOC).
   220    0303004F                            EIT CONNECT.......................          32,900          32,900
   221    0303089F                            CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS SYSTEMS.....           4,881           4,881
   222    0303131F                            MINIMUM ESSENTIAL EMERGENCY                 33,567          33,567
                                               COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK (MEECN).
   223    0303133F                            HIGH FREQUENCY RADIO SYSTEMS......          40,000          40,000
   224    0303140F                            INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY                95,523          95,523
                                               PROGRAM.
   226    0303248F                            ALL DOMAIN COMMON PLATFORM........          71,296          71,296
   227    0303260F                            JOINT MILITARY DECEPTION                     4,682           4,682
                                               INITIATIVE.
   228    0304100F                            STRATEGIC MISSION PLANNING &                64,944          64,944
                                               EXECUTION SYSTEM (SMPES).
   230    0304260F                            AIRBORNE SIGINT ENTERPRISE........         108,947         108,947
   231    0304310F                            COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC ANALYSIS......           4,635           4,635
   234    0305015F                            C2 AIR OPERATIONS SUITE--C2 INFO            13,751          13,751
                                               SERVICES.
   235    0305020F                            CCMD INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION                1,660           1,660
                                               TECHNOLOGY.
   236    0305022F                            ISR MODERNIZATION & AUTOMATION              18,680          18,680
                                               DVMT (IMAD).
   237    0305099F                            GLOBAL AIR TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT                5,031           5,031
                                               (GATM).
   238    0305103F                            CYBER SECURITY INITIATIVE.........             301             301
   239    0305111F                            WEATHER SERVICE...................          26,329          35,329
          ..................................  Weather service data migration....                         [9,000]
   240    0305114F                            AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL, APPROACH, AND           8,751           8,751
                                               LANDING SYSTEM (ATCALS).
   241    0305116F                            AERIAL TARGETS....................           6,915           6,915
   244    0305128F                            SECURITY AND INVESTIGATIVE                     352             352
                                               ACTIVITIES.
   245    0305146F                            DEFENSE JOINT COUNTERINTELLIGENCE            6,930           6,930
                                               ACTIVITIES.
   246    0305179F                            INTEGRATED BROADCAST SERVICE (IBS)          21,588          21,588
   247    0305202F                            DRAGON U-2........................          16,842          16,842
   248    0305206F                            AIRBORNE RECONNAISSANCE SYSTEMS...          43,158          43,158
   249    0305207F                            MANNED RECONNAISSANCE SYSTEMS.....          14,330          14,330
   250    0305208F                            DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND/SURFACE           88,854          88,854
                                               SYSTEMS.
   251    0305220F                            RQ-4 UAV..........................           1,242           1,242
   252    0305221F                            NETWORK-CENTRIC COLLABORATIVE               12,496          12,496
                                               TARGETING.
   253    0305238F                            NATO AGS..........................               2               2
   254    0305240F                            SUPPORT TO DCGS ENTERPRISE........          31,589          31,589
   255    0305600F                            INTERNATIONAL INTELLIGENCE                  15,322          15,322
                                               TECHNOLOGY AND ARCHITECTURES.
   256    0305881F                            RAPID CYBER ACQUISITION...........           8,830           8,830
   257    0305984F                            PERSONNEL RECOVERY COMMAND & CTRL            2,764           2,764
                                               (PRC2).
   258    0307577F                            INTELLIGENCE MISSION DATA (IMD)...           7,090           7,090
   259    0401115F                            C-130 AIRLIFT SQUADRON............           5,427           5,427
   260    0401119F                            C-5 AIRLIFT SQUADRONS (IF)........          29,502          29,502
   261    0401130F                            C-17 AIRCRAFT (IF)................           2,753           2,753
   262    0401132F                            C-130J PROGRAM....................          19,100          19,100
   263    0401134F                            LARGE AIRCRAFT IR COUNTERMEASURES            5,982           5,982
                                               (LAIRCM).
   264    0401218F                            KC-135S...........................          51,105          51,105
   265    0401318F                            CV-22.............................          18,127          18,127
   266    0408011F                            SPECIAL TACTICS / COMBAT CONTROL..           9,198           9,198
   268    0708610F                            LOGISTICS INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY            17,520          17,520
                                               (LOGIT).
   269    0801380F                            AF LVC OPERATIONAL TRAINING (LVC-           25,144          25,144
                                               OT).
   270    0804743F                            OTHER FLIGHT TRAINING.............           2,265           2,265
   272    0901202F                            JOINT PERSONNEL RECOVERY AGENCY...           2,266           2,266
   273    0901218F                            CIVILIAN COMPENSATION PROGRAM.....           4,006           4,006
   274    0901220F                            PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION..........           3,078           3,078
   275    0901226F                            AIR FORCE STUDIES AND ANALYSIS               5,309           5,309
                                               AGENCY.
   276    0901538F                            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT INFORMATION             4,279           4,279
                                               SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT.
   277    0901554F                            DEFENSE ENTERPRISE ACNTNG AND MGT           45,925          45,925
                                               SYS (DEAMS).
   278    1202140F                            SERVICE SUPPORT TO SPACECOM                  9,778           9,778
                                               ACTIVITIES.
  9999    9999999999                          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...............      16,814,245      16,814,245
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS            23,829,283      23,851,800
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
          ..................................
          ..................................  TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST       46,565,356      46,481,224
                                               & EVAL, AF.
          ..................................
          ..................................  RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
                                               EVAL, SF
          ..................................  APPLIED RESEARCH
     4    1206601SF                           SPACE TECHNOLOGY..................         206,196         350,663
          ..................................  Advanced analog microelectronics..                         [8,600]
          ..................................  Advanced isotope power systems....                         [5,000]
          ..................................  DAF requested realignment of funds                        [84,397]
          ..................................  Ground-based interferometry.......                        [16,000]
          ..................................  Lunar surface-based domain                                 [5,000]
                                               awareness.
          ..................................  Solar cruiser.....................                        [10,000]
          ..................................  Space modeling, simulation, and                           [15,470]
                                               analysis hub.
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL APPLIED RESEARCH.........         206,196         350,663
          ..................................
          ..................................  ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
     5    1206310SF                           SPACE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY               472,493         477,493
                                               RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.
          ..................................  Human performance optimization....                         [5,000]
     6    1206616SF                           SPACE ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY                  110,033         158,033
                                               DEVELOPMENT/DEMO.
          ..................................  DAF requested realignment of funds                        [40,000]
          ..................................  Modular multi-mode propulsion                              [8,000]
                                               system.
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY               582,526         635,526
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
          ..................................
          ..................................  ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &
                                               PROTOTYPES
     7    0604002SF                           SPACE FORCE WEATHER SERVICES                   849             849
                                               RESEARCH.
     8    1203010SF                           SPACE FORCE IT, DATA ANALYTICS,             61,723          61,723
                                               DIGITAL SOLUTIONS.
     9    1203164SF                           NAVSTAR GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM          353,807         353,807
                                               (USER EQUIPMENT) (SPACE).
    10    1203622SF                           SPACE WARFIGHTING ANALYSIS........          95,541          95,541
    11    1203710SF                           EO/IR WEATHER SYSTEMS.............          95,615         112,115
          ..................................  Weather satellite risk reduction..                        [16,500]
    13    1206410SF                           SPACE TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT AND         2,081,307       2,081,307
                                               PROTOTYPING.
    16    1206427SF                           SPACE SYSTEMS PROTOTYPE                    145,948         105,948
                                               TRANSITIONS (SSPT).
          ..................................  DAF requested realignment of funds                       [-40,000]
                                               to 6616SF.
    17    1206438SF                           SPACE CONTROL TECHNOLOGY..........          58,374          58,374
    18    1206458SF                           TECH TRANSITION (SPACE)...........         164,649         179,649
          ..................................  Encouraging the establishment of                          [15,000]
                                               the outernet.
    19    1206730SF                           SPACE SECURITY AND DEFENSE PROGRAM          59,784          59,784
    20    1206760SF                           PROTECTED TACTICAL ENTERPRISE               76,554          76,554
                                               SERVICE (PTES).
    21    1206761SF                           PROTECTED TACTICAL SERVICE (PTS)..         360,126         360,126
    22    1206855SF                           EVOLVED STRATEGIC SATCOM (ESS)....         632,833         632,833
    23    1206857SF                           SPACE RAPID CAPABILITIES OFFICE...          12,036          12,036
    24    1206862SF                           TACTICALLY RESPONSE SPACE.........          30,000          30,000
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT              4,229,146       4,220,646
                                               DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES.
          ..................................
          ..................................  SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
    25    1203269SF                           GPS III FOLLOW-ON (GPS IIIF)......         308,999         308,999
    27    1206421SF                           COUNTERSPACE SYSTEMS..............          36,537          36,537
    28    1206422SF                           WEATHER SYSTEM FOLLOW-ON..........          79,727          79,727
    29    1206425SF                           SPACE SITUATION AWARENESS SYSTEMS.         372,827         372,827
    30    1206431SF                           ADVANCED EHF MILSATCOM (SPACE)....           4,068           4,068
    31    1206432SF                           POLAR MILSATCOM (SPACE)...........          73,757          73,757
    32    1206433SF                           WIDEBAND GLOBAL SATCOM (SPACE)....          49,445          49,445
    33    1206440SF                           NEXT-GEN OPIR--GROUND.............         661,367         661,367
    34    1206442SF                           NEXT GENERATION OPIR..............         222,178         222,178
    35    1206443SF                           NEXT-GEN OPIR--GEO................         719,731         719,731
    36    1206444SF                           NEXT-GEN OPIR--POLAR..............       1,013,478       1,013,478
    37    1206445SF                           COMMERCIAL SATCOM (COMSATCOM)               73,501          73,501
                                               INTEGRATION.
    38    1206446SF                           RESILIENT MISSILE WARNING MISSILE        1,266,437       1,519,222
                                               TRACKING--LOW EARTH ORBIT (LEO).
          ..................................  DAF requested realignment of funds                       [252,785]
    39    1206447SF                           RESILIENT MISSILE WARNING MISSILE          538,208         790,992
                                               TRACKING--MEDIUM EARTH ORBIT
                                               (MEO).
          ..................................  DAF requested realignment of funds                       [252,784]
    40    1206448SF                           RESILIENT MISSILE WARNING MISSILE          505,569               0
                                               TRACKING--INTEGRATED GROUND
                                               SEGMENT.
          ..................................  DAF requested realignment of funds                      [-252,785]
                                               to 6446SF.
          ..................................  DAF requested realignment of funds                      [-252,784]
                                               to 6447SF.
    41    1206853SF                           NATIONAL SECURITY SPACE LAUNCH              82,188          82,188
                                               PROGRAM (SPACE)--EMD.
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &            6,008,017       6,008,017
                                               DEMONSTRATION.
          ..................................
          ..................................  MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
    43    1203622SF                           SPACE WARFIGHTING ANALYSIS........           3,568           3,568
    46    1206392SF                           ACQ WORKFORCE--SPACE & MISSILE             258,969         276,500
                                               SYSTEMS.
          ..................................  DAF requested realignment of funds                        [17,531]
    47    1206398SF                           SPACE & MISSILE SYSTEMS CENTER--            13,694          15,053
                                               MHA.
          ..................................  DAF requested realignment of funds                         [1,359]
    48    1206601SF                           SPACE TECHNOLOGY..................          91,778               0
          ..................................  DAF requested realignment of funds                       [-91,778]
    49    1206759SF                           MAJOR T&E INVESTMENT--SPACE.......         146,797         146,797
    50    1206860SF                           ROCKET SYSTEMS LAUNCH PROGRAM               18,023          18,023
                                               (SPACE).
    52    1206864SF                           SPACE TEST PROGRAM (STP)..........          30,192          30,192
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT.......         563,021         490,133
          ..................................
          ..................................  OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
    55    1203001SF                           FAMILY OF ADVANCED BLOS TERMINALS           91,369          91,369
                                               (FAB-T).
    56    1203040SF                           DCO-SPACE.........................          76,003          76,003
    57    1203109SF                           NARROWBAND SATELLITE                       230,785         230,785
                                               COMMUNICATIONS.
    58    1203110SF                           SATELLITE CONTROL NETWORK (SPACE).          86,465          86,465
    59    1203154SF                           LONG RANGE KILL CHAINS............         243,036         243,036
    61    1203173SF                           SPACE AND MISSILE TEST AND                  22,039          22,039
                                               EVALUATION CENTER.
    62    1203174SF                           SPACE INNOVATION, INTEGRATION AND           41,483          41,483
                                               RAPID TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT.
    63    1203182SF                           SPACELIFT RANGE SYSTEM (SPACE)....          11,175          11,175
    65    1203330SF                           SPACE SUPERIORITY ISR.............          28,730          28,730
    67    1203873SF                           BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE RADARS..          20,752          28,752
          ..................................  Perimeter Acquisition Radar Attack                         [8,000]
                                               Characterization System (PARCS)
                                               radar.
    68    1203906SF                           NCMC--TW/AA SYSTEM................          25,545          25,545
    69    1203913SF                           NUDET DETECTION SYSTEM (SPACE)....          93,391          93,391
    70    1203940SF                           SPACE SITUATION AWARENESS                  264,966         264,966
                                               OPERATIONS.
    71    1206423SF                           GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM III--            317,309         317,309
                                               OPERATIONAL CONTROL SEGMENT.
    75    1206770SF                           ENTERPRISE GROUND SERVICES........         155,825         155,825
    76    1208053SF                           JOINT TACTICAL GROUND SYSTEM......          14,568          14,568
  9999    9999999999                          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...............       5,764,667       6,225,367
          ..................................  Space Force realignment of funds                         [270,000]
                                               for classified program.
          ..................................  Space Force Unfunded Priorities                           [83,000]
                                               List Classified Program B.
          ..................................  Space Force Unfunded Priorities                           [53,000]
                                               List Classified Program C.
          ..................................  Space Force Unfunded Priorities                           [54,700]
                                               List Classified Program D.
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS             7,488,108       7,956,808
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
          ..................................
          ..................................  SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY
                                               PILOT PROGRAMS
    78    1208248SF                           SPACE COMMAND & CONTROL--SOFTWARE          122,326         122,326
                                               PILOT PROGRAM.
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL              122,326         122,326
                                               TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAMS.
          ..................................
          ..................................  TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST       19,199,340      19,784,119
                                               & EVAL, SF.
          ..................................
          ..................................  RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
                                               EVAL, DW
          ..................................  BASIC RESEARCH
     1    0601000BR                           DTRA BASIC RESEARCH...............          14,761          14,761
     2    0601101E                            DEFENSE RESEARCH SCIENCES.........         311,531         311,531
     3    0601108D8Z                          HIGH ENERGY LASER RESEARCH                  16,329          16,329
                                               INITIATIVES.
     4    0601110D8Z                          BASIC RESEARCH INITIATIVES........          71,783          96,783
          ..................................  Defense Established Program to                            [25,000]
                                               Stimulate Competitive Research
                                               (DEPSCoR).
     5    0601117E                            BASIC OPERATIONAL MEDICAL RESEARCH          50,430          50,430
                                               SCIENCE.
     6    0601120D8Z                          NATIONAL DEFENSE EDUCATION PROGRAM         159,549         169,549
          ..................................  Enhanced civics education program.                        [10,000]
     7    0601228D8Z                          HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES AND            100,467         100,467
                                               UNIVERSITIES/MINORITY
                                               INSTITUTIONS.
     8    0601384BP                           CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE             36,235          36,235
                                               PROGRAM.
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL BASIC RESEARCH...........         761,085         796,085
          ..................................
          ..................................  APPLIED RESEARCH
     9    0602000D8Z                          JOINT MUNITIONS TECHNOLOGY........          19,157          19,157
    10    0602115E                            BIOMEDICAL TECHNOLOGY.............         141,081         141,081
    11    0602128D8Z                          PROMOTION AND PROTECTION                     3,219           3,219
                                               STRATEGIES.
    12    0602230D8Z                          DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION.....          55,160          55,160
    13    0602234D8Z                          LINCOLN LABORATORY RESEARCH                 46,858          46,858
                                               PROGRAM.
    14    0602251D8Z                          APPLIED RESEARCH FOR THE                    66,866          66,866
                                               ADVANCEMENT OF S&T PRIORITIES.
    15    0602303E                            INFORMATION & COMMUNICATIONS               333,029         333,029
                                               TECHNOLOGY.
    17    0602384BP                           CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE            240,610         240,610
                                               PROGRAM.
    18    0602668D8Z                          CYBER SECURITY RESEARCH...........          17,437          20,437
          ..................................  Semiconductor industry                                     [3,000]
                                               cybersecurity research.
    19    0602675D8Z                          SOCIAL SCIENCES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL            4,718           4,718
                                               SECURITY.
    20    0602702E                            TACTICAL TECHNOLOGY...............         234,549         234,549
    21    0602715E                            MATERIALS AND BIOLOGICAL                   344,986         344,986
                                               TECHNOLOGY.
    22    0602716E                            ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY............         572,662         572,662
    23    0602718BR                           COUNTER WEAPONS OF MASS                    208,870         208,870
                                               DESTRUCTION APPLIED RESEARCH.
    24    0602751D8Z                          SOFTWARE ENGINEERING INSTITUTE              11,168          11,168
                                               (SEI) APPLIED RESEARCH.
    25    0602890D8Z                          HIGH ENERGY LASER RESEARCH........          48,804          48,804
    26    0602891D8Z                          FSRM MODELLING....................           2,000           2,000
    27    1160401BB                           SOF TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT........          52,287          52,287
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL APPLIED RESEARCH.........       2,403,461       2,406,461
          ..................................
          ..................................  ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
    28    0603000D8Z                          JOINT MUNITIONS ADVANCED                    37,706          37,706
                                               TECHNOLOGY.
    29    0603021D8Z                          NATIONAL SECURITY INNOVATION                15,085          15,085
                                               CAPITAL.
    30    0603121D8Z                          SO/LIC ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT.......          30,102          30,102
    31    0603122D8Z                          COMBATING TERRORISM TECHNOLOGY              75,593         105,593
                                               SUPPORT.
          ..................................  Loitering munition development....                         [5,000]
          ..................................  U.S.-Israel defense collaboration                         [25,000]
                                               on emerging technologies.
    32    0603133D8Z                          FOREIGN COMPARATIVE TESTING.......          27,078          27,078
    33    0603160BR                           COUNTER WEAPONS OF MASS                    400,947         405,947
                                               DESTRUCTION ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
          ..................................  Advanced manufacturing of                                  [5,000]
                                               energetic materials.
    34    0603176BR                           ADVANCED CONCEPTS AND PERFORMANCE            7,990           7,990
                                               ASSESSMENT.
    35    0603176C                            ADVANCED CONCEPTS AND PERFORMANCE           17,825          17,825
                                               ASSESSMENT.
    36    0603180C                            ADVANCED RESEARCH.................          21,461          21,461
    37    0603183D8Z                          JOINT HYPERSONIC TECHNOLOGY                 52,292          52,292
                                               DEVELOPMENT &TRANSITION.
    38    0603225D8Z                          JOINT DOD-DOE MUNITIONS TECHNOLOGY          19,567          19,567
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
    39    0603260BR                           INTELLIGENCE ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT.          10,000          10,000
    40    0603286E                            ADVANCED AEROSPACE SYSTEMS........         331,753         331,753
    41    0603287E                            SPACE PROGRAMS AND TECHNOLOGY.....         134,809         134,809
    42    0603288D8Z                          ANALYTIC ASSESSMENTS..............          24,328          24,328
    43    0603289D8Z                          ADVANCED INNOVATIVE ANALYSIS AND            55,626          55,626
                                               CONCEPTS.
    44    0603330D8Z                          QUANTUM APPLICATION...............          75,000          75,000
    46    0603342D8Z                          DEFENSE INNOVATION UNIT (DIU).....         104,729         104,729
    47    0603375D8Z                          TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION.............         123,837         123,837
    48    0603379D8Z                          ADVANCED TECHNICAL INTEGRATION....          11,000          11,000
    49    0603384BP                           CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE            267,073         292,073
                                               PROGRAM--ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT.
          ..................................  Generative Unconstrained                                  [25,000]
                                               Intelligent Drug Engineering-
                                               Enhanced Biodefense.
    50    0603527D8Z                          RETRACT LARCH.....................          57,401          57,401
    51    0603618D8Z                          JOINT ELECTRONIC ADVANCED                   19,793          19,793
                                               TECHNOLOGY.
    53    0603662D8Z                          NETWORKED COMMUNICATIONS                    11,197          11,197
                                               CAPABILITIES.
    54    0603680D8Z                          DEFENSE-WIDE MANUFACTURING SCIENCE         252,965         264,965
                                               AND TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM.
          ..................................  Additive manufacturing at scale...                         [7,000]
          ..................................  Digital manufacturing                                      [5,000]
                                               modernization.
    55    0603680S                            MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM..          46,404          46,404
    56    0603712S                            GENERIC LOGISTICS R&D TECHNOLOGY            16,580          16,580
                                               DEMONSTRATIONS.
    57    0603716D8Z                          STRATEGIC ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH            60,387          60,387
                                               PROGRAM.
    58    0603720S                            MICROELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY                144,707         144,707
                                               DEVELOPMENT AND SUPPORT.
    59    0603727D8Z                          JOINT WARFIGHTING PROGRAM.........           2,749           2,749
    60    0603739E                            ADVANCED ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGIES.         254,033         254,033
    61    0603760E                            COMMAND, CONTROL AND                       321,591         321,591
                                               COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS.
    62    0603766E                            NETWORK-CENTRIC WARFARE TECHNOLOGY         885,425         885,425
    63    0603767E                            SENSOR TECHNOLOGY.................         358,580         358,580
    65    0603781D8Z                          SOFTWARE ENGINEERING INSTITUTE....          16,699          16,699
    66    0603838D8Z                          DEFENSE INNOVATION ACCELERATION            257,110         257,110
                                               (DIA).
    67    0603924D8Z                          HIGH ENERGY LASER ADVANCED                 111,799         111,799
                                               TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM.
    68    0603941D8Z                          TEST & EVALUATION SCIENCE &                345,384         345,384
                                               TECHNOLOGY.
    69    0603945D8Z                          AUKUS INNOVATION INITIATIVES......          25,000          25,000
    70    0603950D8Z                          NATIONAL SECURITY INNOVATION                21,575          28,575
                                               NETWORK.
          ..................................  National Security Innovation                               [7,000]
                                               Network.
    71    0604055D8Z                          OPERATIONAL ENERGY CAPABILITY              171,668         181,668
                                               IMPROVEMENT.
          ..................................  Increase for tristructural-                               [10,000]
                                               isotrophic fuel.
    72    1160402BB                           SOF ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY                    156,097         156,097
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY             5,380,945       5,469,945
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
          ..................................
          ..................................  ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &
                                               PROTOTYPES
    74    0603161D8Z                          NUCLEAR AND CONVENTIONAL PHYSICAL           76,764          76,764
                                               SECURITY EQUIPMENT RDT&E ADC&P.
    75    0603600D8Z                          WALKOFF...........................         143,486         143,486
    76    0603851D8Z                          ENVIRONMENTAL SECURITY TECHNICAL           117,196         123,196
                                               CERTIFICATION PROGRAM.
          ..................................  Sustainable Technology Evaluation                          [6,000]
                                               and Demonstration program
                                               increase.
    77    0603881C                            BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE TERMINAL         220,311         220,311
                                               DEFENSE SEGMENT.
    78    0603882C                            BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE                  903,633         903,633
                                               MIDCOURSE DEFENSE SEGMENT.
    79    0603884BP                           CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE            316,853         316,853
                                               PROGRAM--DEM/VAL.
    80    0603884C                            BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE SENSORS.         239,159         239,159
    81    0603890C                            BMD ENABLING PROGRAMS.............         597,720         597,720
    82    0603891C                            SPECIAL PROGRAMS--MDA.............         552,888         552,888
    83    0603892C                            AEGIS BMD.........................         693,727         693,727
    84    0603896C                            BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE COMMAND          554,201         554,201
                                               AND CONTROL, BATTLE MANAGEMENT
                                               AND COMMUNICATI.
    85    0603898C                            BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE JOINT             48,248          48,248
                                               WARFIGHTER SUPPORT.
    86    0603904C                            MISSILE DEFENSE INTEGRATION &               50,549          50,549
                                               OPERATIONS CENTER (MDIOC).
    87    0603906C                            REGARDING TRENCH..................          12,564          27,564
          ..................................  Program increase--MDA UFR.........                        [15,000]
    88    0603907C                            SEA BASED X-BAND RADAR (SBX)......         177,868         177,868
    89    0603913C                            ISRAELI COOPERATIVE PROGRAMS......         300,000         325,000
          ..................................  U.S.-Israel cooperation on                                [25,000]
                                               directed energy capabilities.
    90    0603914C                            BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE TEST....         360,455         360,455
    91    0603915C                            BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE TARGETS.         570,258         580,258
          ..................................  Hypersonic Targets and                                    [10,000]
                                               Countermeasures Program.
    92    0603923D8Z                          COALITION WARFARE.................          12,103          12,103
    93    0604011D8Z                          NEXT GENERATION INFORMATION                179,278         179,278
                                               COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (5G).
    94    0604016D8Z                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CORROSION              3,185           3,185
                                               PROGRAM.
    95    0604102C                            GUAM DEFENSE DEVELOPMENT..........         397,578         397,578
    97    0604124D8Z                          CHIEF DIGITAL AND ARTIFICIAL                34,350          34,350
                                               INTELLIGENCE OFFICER (CDAO)--MIP.
    98    0604181C                            HYPERSONIC DEFENSE................         208,997         208,997
    99    0604250D8Z                          ADVANCED INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGIES..       1,085,826       1,085,826
   100    0604294D8Z                          TRUSTED & ASSURED MICROELECTRONICS         810,839         810,839
   101    0604331D8Z                          RAPID PROTOTYPING PROGRAM.........         110,291         110,291
   102    0604331J                            RAPID PROTOTYPING PROGRAM.........           9,880           9,880
   104    0604400D8Z                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (DOD)                  2,643           2,643
                                               UNMANNED SYSTEM COMMON
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
   105    0604551BR                           CATAPULT INFORMATION SYSTEM.......           8,328           8,328
   106    0604555D8Z                          OPERATIONAL ENERGY CAPABILITY               53,726          53,726
                                               IMPROVEMENT--NON S&T.
   108    0604682D8Z                          WARGAMING AND SUPPORT FOR                    3,206           3,206
                                               STRATEGIC ANALYSIS (SSA).
   109    0604790D8Z                          RAPID DEFENSE EXPERIMENTATION               79,773          79,773
                                               RESERVE (RDER).
   110    0604826J                            JOINT C5 CAPABILITY DEVELOPMENT,            28,517          28,517
                                               INTEGRATION AND INTEROPERABILITY
                                               ASSESSMENTS.
   111    0604873C                            LONG RANGE DISCRIMINATION RADAR            103,517         103,517
                                               (LRDR).
   112    0604874C                            IMPROVED HOMELAND DEFENSE                2,130,838       2,130,838
                                               INTERCEPTORS.
   113    0604876C                            BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE TERMINAL          47,577          47,577
                                               DEFENSE SEGMENT TEST.
   114    0604878C                            AEGIS BMD TEST....................         193,484         193,484
   115    0604879C                            BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE SENSOR           111,049         111,049
                                               TEST.
   116    0604880C                            LAND-BASED SM-3 (LBSM3)...........          22,163          22,163
   117    0604887C                            BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE                   41,824          41,824
                                               MIDCOURSE SEGMENT TEST.
   118    0202057C                            SAFETY PROGRAM MANAGEMENT.........           2,484           2,484
   119    0208059JCY                          CYBERCOM ACTIVITIES...............          65,484          65,484
   120    0208085JCY                          ROBUST INFRASTRUCTURE AND ACCESS..         170,182         170,182
   121    0208086JCY                          CYBER TRAINING ENVIRONMENT (CTE)..         114,980         114,980
   122    0300206R                            ENTERPRISE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY            2,156           2,156
                                               SYSTEMS.
   123    0305103C                            CYBER SECURITY INITIATIVE.........           2,760           2,760
   124    0305245D8Z                          INTELLIGENCE CAPABILITIES AND                3,000           3,000
                                               INNOVATION INVESTMENTS.
   125    0305251JCY                          CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS FORCES AND             2,669           2,669
                                               FORCE SUPPORT.
   126    0901579D8Z                          OFFICE OF STRATEGIC CAPITAL (OSC).          99,000          99,000
   129    1206895C                            BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEM           109,483         109,483
                                               SPACE PROGRAMS.
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT             12,187,050      12,243,050
                                               DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES.
          ..................................
          ..................................  SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
   130    0604123D8Z                          CHIEF DIGITAL AND ARTIFICIAL               615,246         615,246
                                               INTELLIGENCE OFFICER (CDAO)--DEM/
                                               VAL ACTIVITIES.
   131    0604161D8Z                          NUCLEAR AND CONVENTIONAL PHYSICAL            6,229           6,229
                                               SECURITY EQUIPMENT RDT&E SDD.
   132    0604384BP                           CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE            382,977         382,977
                                               PROGRAM--EMD.
   133    0604771D8Z                          JOINT TACTICAL INFORMATION                   9,775           9,775
                                               DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM (JTIDS).
   134    0605000BR                           COUNTER WEAPONS OF MASS                     14,414          14,414
                                               DESTRUCTION SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT.
   135    0605013BL                           INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT           6,953           6,953
   136    0605021SE                           HOMELAND PERSONNEL SECURITY                  9,292           9,292
                                               INITIATIVE.
   137    0605022D8Z                          DEFENSE EXPORTABILITY PROGRAM.....          18,981          18,981
   138    0605027D8Z                          OUSD(C) IT DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES           5,456           5,456
   140    0605080S                            DEFENSE AGENCY INITIATIVES (DAI)--          32,629          32,629
                                               FINANCIAL SYSTEM.
   141    0605141BR                           MISSION ASSURANCE RISK MANAGEMENT            9,316           9,316
                                               SYSTEM (MARMS).
   142    0605210D8Z                          DEFENSE-WIDE ELECTRONIC                      6,899           6,899
                                               PROCUREMENT CAPABILITIES.
   143    0605294D8Z                          TRUSTED & ASSURED MICROELECTRONICS         297,586         297,586
   145    0605772D8Z                          NUCLEAR COMMAND, CONTROL, &                  4,110           4,110
                                               COMMUNICATIONS.
   146    0305304D8Z                          DOD ENTERPRISE ENERGY INFORMATION            8,159           8,159
                                               MANAGEMENT (EEIM).
   147    0305310D8Z                          CWMD SYSTEMS: SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT            14,471          14,471
                                               AND DEMONSTRATION.
   148    0505167D8Z                          DOMESTIC PREPAREDNESS AGAINST                3,770           3,770
                                               WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION.
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &            1,446,263       1,446,263
                                               DEMONSTRATION.
          ..................................
          ..................................  MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
   149    0603829J                            JOINT CAPABILITY EXPERIMENTATION..          12,402          12,402
   150    0604774D8Z                          DEFENSE READINESS REPORTING SYSTEM          12,746          12,746
                                               (DRRS).
   151    0604875D8Z                          JOINT SYSTEMS ARCHITECTURE                   8,426           8,426
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
   152    0604940D8Z                          CENTRAL TEST AND EVALUATION                833,792         833,792
                                               INVESTMENT DEVELOPMENT (CTEIP).
   153    0604942D8Z                          ASSESSMENTS AND EVALUATIONS.......           5,810           5,810
   154    0605001E                            MISSION SUPPORT...................          99,090          99,090
   155    0605100D8Z                          JOINT MISSION ENVIRONMENT TEST             187,421         187,421
                                               CAPABILITY (JMETC).
   156    0605126J                            JOINT INTEGRATED AIR AND MISSILE            61,477          61,477
                                               DEFENSE ORGANIZATION (JIAMDO).
   158    0605142D8Z                          SYSTEMS ENGINEERING...............          39,949          39,949
   159    0605151D8Z                          STUDIES AND ANALYSIS SUPPORT--OSD.           6,292           6,292
   160    0605161D8Z                          NUCLEAR MATTERS-PHYSICAL SECURITY.          21,043          21,043
   161    0605170D8Z                          SUPPORT TO NETWORKS AND                     10,504          10,504
                                               INFORMATION INTEGRATION.
   162    0605200D8Z                          GENERAL SUPPORT TO                           2,980           2,980
                                               OUSD(INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY).
   163    0605384BP                           CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE             74,382          74,382
                                               PROGRAM.
   170    0605790D8Z                          SMALL BUSINESS INNOVATION RESEARCH           3,831           3,831
                                               (SBIR)/ SMALL BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY
                                               TRANSFER.
   171    0605797D8Z                          MAINTAINING TECHNOLOGY ADVANTAGE..          38,923          38,923
   172    0605798D8Z                          DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY ANALYSIS.......          60,404          60,404
   173    0605801KA                           DEFENSE TECHNICAL INFORMATION               65,715          60,715
                                               CENTER (DTIC).
          ..................................  Information Analysis Centers                              [-5,000]
                                               reduction.
   174    0605803SE                           R&D IN SUPPORT OF DOD ENLISTMENT,           26,037          26,037
                                               TESTING AND EVALUATION.
   175    0605804D8Z                          DEVELOPMENT TEST AND EVALUATION...          37,353          37,353
   176    0605898E                            MANAGEMENT HQ--R&D................          14,833          14,833
   177    0605998KA                           MANAGEMENT HQ--DEFENSE TECHNICAL             3,752           3,752
                                               INFORMATION CENTER (DTIC).
   178    0606005D8Z                          SPECIAL ACTIVITIES................          18,088          18,088
   179    0606100D8Z                          BUDGET AND PROGRAM ASSESSMENTS....          14,427          14,427
   180    0606114D8Z                          ANALYSIS WORKING GROUP (AWG)                 4,200           4,200
                                               SUPPORT.
   181    0606135D8Z                          CHIEF DIGITAL AND ARTIFICIAL                17,247          17,247
                                               INTELLIGENCE OFFICER (CDAO)
                                               ACTIVITIES.
   182    0606225D8Z                          ODNA TECHNOLOGY AND RESOURCE                 3,386           3,386
                                               ANALYSIS.
   183    0606300D8Z                          DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD.............           2,352           2,352
   184    0606301D8Z                          AVIATION SAFETY TECHNOLOGIES......             213             213
   186    0606771D8Z                          CYBER RESILIENCY AND CYBERSECURITY          45,194          45,194
                                               POLICY.
   187    0606853BR                           MANAGEMENT, TECHNICAL &                     11,919          11,919
                                               INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT.
   188    0203345D8Z                          DEFENSE OPERATIONS SECURITY                  3,112           3,112
                                               INITIATIVE (DOSI).
   189    0204571J                            JOINT STAFF ANALYTICAL SUPPORT....           4,916           4,916
   190    0208045K                            C4I INTEROPERABILITY..............          66,152          66,152
   195    0305172K                            COMBINED ADVANCED APPLICATIONS....           5,366           5,366
   197    0305208K                            DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND/SURFACE            3,069           3,069
                                               SYSTEMS.
   199    0804768J                            COCOM EXERCISE ENGAGEMENT AND              101,319         101,319
                                               TRAINING TRANSFORMATION (CE2T2)--
                                               NON-MHA.
   200    0808709SE                           DEFENSE EQUAL OPPORTUNITY                      740             740
                                               MANAGEMENT INSTITUTE (DEOMI).
   201    0901598C                            MANAGEMENT HQ--MDA................          28,363          28,363
   202    0903235K                            JOINT SERVICE PROVIDER (JSP)......           5,177           5,177
  9999    9999999999                          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...............          36,315          63,315
          ..................................  All Domain Anomaly Resolution                             [27,000]
                                               Office.
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT.......       1,998,717       2,020,717
          ..................................
          ..................................  OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
   203    0604130V                            ENTERPRISE SECURITY SYSTEM (ESS)..          42,482          42,482
   205    0607210D8Z                          INDUSTRIAL BASE ANALYSIS AND             1,017,141       1,045,141
                                               SUSTAINMENT SUPPORT.
          ..................................  Domestic advanced microelectronics                         [5,000]
                                               packaging.
          ..................................  Rapid Innovation Program..........                        [20,000]
          ..................................  Shipbuilding and ship repair                               [3,000]
                                               workforce development.
   206    0607310D8Z                          COUNTERPROLIFERATION SPECIAL                12,713          12,713
                                               PROJECTS: OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
   207    0607327T                            GLOBAL THEATER SECURITY                      8,503           8,503
                                               COOPERATION MANAGEMENT
                                               INFORMATION SYSTEMS (G-TSCMIS).
   208    0607384BP                           CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE             80,495          80,495
                                               (OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT).
   209    0208097JCY                          CYBER COMMAND AND CONTROL (CYBER            95,733          95,733
                                               C2).
   210    0208099JCY                          DATA AND UNIFIED PLATFORM (D&UP)..         138,558         138,558
   214    0302019K                            DEFENSE INFO INFRASTRUCTURE                 19,299          19,299
                                               ENGINEERING AND INTEGRATION.
   215    0303126K                            LONG-HAUL COMMUNICATIONS--DCS.....          37,726          37,726
   216    0303131K                            MINIMUM ESSENTIAL EMERGENCY                  5,037           5,037
                                               COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK (MEECN).
   218    0303140D8Z                          INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY                97,171          97,171
                                               PROGRAM.
   220    0303140K                            INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY                 8,351           8,351
                                               PROGRAM.
   222    0303153K                            DEFENSE SPECTRUM ORGANIZATION.....          35,995          35,995
   223    0303171K                            JOINT PLANNING AND EXECUTION                 5,677           5,677
                                               SERVICES.
   224    0303228K                            JOINT REGIONAL SECURITY STACKS               3,196           3,196
                                               (JRSS).
   228    0305104D8Z                          DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE (DIB)               25,655          25,655
                                               CYBER SECURITY INITIATIVE.
   232    0305133V                            INDUSTRIAL SECURITY ACTIVITIES....           2,134           2,134
   235    0305146V                            DEFENSE JOINT COUNTERINTELLIGENCE            2,295           2,295
                                               ACTIVITIES.
   236    0305172D8Z                          COMBINED ADVANCED APPLICATIONS....          52,736          52,736
   239    0305186D8Z                          POLICY R&D PROGRAMS...............           6,263           6,263
   240    0305199D8Z                          NET CENTRICITY....................          23,275          23,275
   242    0305208BB                           DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND/SURFACE            6,214           6,214
                                               SYSTEMS.
   249    0305327V                            INSIDER THREAT....................           2,971           2,971
   250    0305387D8Z                          HOMELAND DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY                  1,879           1,879
                                               TRANSFER PROGRAM.
   257    0306250JCY                          CYBER OPERATIONS TECHNOLOGY                469,385         480,385
                                               SUPPORT.
          ..................................  Locked Shield Exercise............                         [4,000]
          ..................................  Modernization of Department of                             [7,000]
                                               Defense Internet Gateway Cyber
                                               Defense.
   261    0505167D8Z                          DOMESTIC PREPAREDNESS AGAINST                1,760           1,760
                                               WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION.
   262    0708012K                            LOGISTICS SUPPORT ACTIVITIES......           1,420           1,420
   263    0708012S                            PACIFIC DISASTER CENTERS..........           1,905           1,905
   264    0708047S                            DEFENSE PROPERTY ACCOUNTABILITY              3,249           3,249
                                               SYSTEM.
   265    1105219BB                           MQ-9 UAV..........................          37,188          37,188
   267    1160403BB                           AVIATION SYSTEMS..................         216,174         216,174
   268    1160405BB                           INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT..          86,737          86,737
   269    1160408BB                           OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS..........         216,135         216,135
   270    1160431BB                           WARRIOR SYSTEMS...................         263,374         280,514
          ..................................  Counter Uncrewed Aerial Systems                           [11,250]
                                               (CUAS) Group 3 Defeat
                                               Acceleration.
          ..................................  Next-Generation Blue Force Tracker                         [5,890]
   271    1160432BB                           SPECIAL PROGRAMS..................             529             529
   272    1160434BB                           UNMANNED ISR......................           6,727           6,727
   273    1160480BB                           SOF TACTICAL VEHICLES.............           9,335           9,335
   274    1160483BB                           MARITIME SYSTEMS..................         158,231         158,231
   275    1160490BB                           OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS                    15,749          15,749
                                               INTELLIGENCE.
  9999    9999999999                          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...............       8,463,742       8,463,742
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS            11,683,139      11,739,279
                                               DEVELOPMENT.
          ..................................
          ..................................  SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY
                                               PILOT PROGRAMS
   278    0608648D8Z                          ACQUISITION VISIBILITY--SOFTWARE            21,355          21,355
                                               PILOT PROGRAM.
   279    0303150K                            GLOBAL COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM.          33,166          33,166
  9999    9999999999                          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...............         270,653         270,653
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL              325,174         325,174
                                               TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAMS.
          ..................................
          ..................................  TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST       36,185,834      36,446,974
                                               & EVAL, DW.
          ..................................
          ..................................  OPERATIONAL TEST & EVAL, DEFENSE
          ..................................  MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
     1    0605118OTE                          OPERATIONAL TEST AND EVALUATION...         169,544         169,544
     2    0605131OTE                          LIVE FIRE TEST AND EVALUATION.....         103,252         103,252
     3    0605814OTE                          OPERATIONAL TEST ACTIVITIES AND             58,693          58,693
                                               ANALYSES.
          ..................................  SUBTOTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT.......         331,489         331,489
          ..................................
          ..................................  TOTAL OPERATIONAL TEST & EVAL,             331,489         331,489
                                               DEFENSE.
          ..................................
          ..................................  TOTAL RDT&E.......................     144,979,625     146,140,912
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                 TITLE XLIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE (In Thousands of Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                     FY 2024          Senate
  Line                                     Item                                      Request        Authorized
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    MANEUVER UNITS.......................................................       3,943,409       3,943,409
   020    MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES.............................................         225,238         225,238
   030    ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE...............................................         947,395         947,395
   040    THEATER LEVEL ASSETS.................................................       2,449,141       2,449,141
   050    LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......................................       1,233,070       1,233,070
   060    AVIATION ASSETS......................................................       2,046,144       2,046,144
   070    FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUPPORT...................................       7,149,427       7,149,427
   080    LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS........................................         475,435         475,435
   090    LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE........................................       1,423,560       1,423,560
   100    MEDICAL READINESS....................................................         951,499         951,499
   110    BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT..............................................       9,943,031       9,943,031
   120    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................       5,381,757       5,381,757
   130    MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS..............................         313,612         313,612
   140    ADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES................................................         454,565         454,565
   150    RESET................................................................         447,987         447,987
   160    US AFRICA COMMAND....................................................         414,680         414,680
   170    US EUROPEAN COMMAND..................................................         408,529         408,529
   180    US SOUTHERN COMMAND..................................................         285,692         285,692
   190    US FORCES KOREA......................................................          88,463          88,463
   200    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS.........................         507,845         507,845
   210    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--CYBERSECURITY.................................         704,667         704,667
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................      39,795,146      39,795,146
 
          MOBILIZATION
   230    STRATEGIC MOBILITY...................................................         470,143         470,143
   240    ARMY PREPOSITIONED STOCKS............................................         433,909         433,909
   250    INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS..............................................           4,244           4,244
          SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION................................................         908,296         908,296
 
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   260    OFFICER ACQUISITION..................................................         178,428         178,428
   270    RECRUIT TRAINING.....................................................          78,235          78,235
   280    ONE STATION UNIT TRAINING............................................         114,777         114,777
   290    SENIOR RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS...............................         551,462         551,462
   300    SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING...........................................       1,147,431       1,147,431
   310    FLIGHT TRAINING......................................................       1,398,415       1,398,415
   320    PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION...................................         200,779         200,779
   330    TRAINING SUPPORT.....................................................         682,896         682,896
   340    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................         690,280         833,336
          Army Enlisted Training Corps.........................................                          [5,000]
          Recruiting and advertising increase..................................                        [138,056]
   350    EXAMINING............................................................         195,009         195,009
   360    OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY EDUCATION.....................................         260,235         260,235
   370    CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND TRAINING......................................         250,252         250,252
   380    JUNIOR RESERVE OFFICER TRAINING CORPS................................         204,895         204,895
          SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING.....................................       5,953,094       6,096,150
 
          ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
   400    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION...........................................         718,323         718,323
   410    CENTRAL SUPPLY ACTIVITIES............................................         900,624         900,624
   420    LOGISTIC SUPPORT ACTIVITIES..........................................         828,059         828,059
   430    AMMUNITION MANAGEMENT................................................         464,029         464,029
   440    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................         537,837         537,837
   450    SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS...........................................       1,962,059       1,962,059
   460    MANPOWER MANAGEMENT..................................................         361,553         361,553
   470    OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT..............................................         829,248         829,248
   480    OTHER SERVICE SUPPORT................................................       2,370,107       2,370,107
   490    ARMY CLAIMS ACTIVITIES...............................................         203,323         203,323
   500    REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT...............................................         286,682         286,682
   510    FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND AUDIT READINESS.............................         455,928         455,928
   520    DEF ACQUISITION WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT ACCOUNT........................          39,867          39,867
   530    INTERNATIONAL MILITARY HEADQUARTERS..................................         610,201         610,201
   540    MISC. SUPPORT OF OTHER NATIONS.......................................          38,948          38,948
   999    CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................       2,291,229       2,291,229
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES..................................      12,898,017      12,898,017
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   998    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0        -337,600
          Foreign currency fluctuations........................................                       [-208,000]
          Unobligated balances.................................................                       [-129,600]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0        -337,600
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY..................................      59,554,553      59,360,009
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES.............................................          15,208          15,208
   020    ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE...............................................         720,802         720,802
   030    THEATER LEVEL ASSETS.................................................         143,400         143,400
   040    LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......................................         707,654         707,654
   050    AVIATION ASSETS......................................................         134,346         134,346
   060    FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUPPORT...................................         451,178         451,178
   070    LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS........................................          97,564          97,564
   080    LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE........................................          45,711          45,711
   090    BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT..............................................         608,079         608,079
   100    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................         495,435         495,435
   110    MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS..............................          28,783          28,783
   120    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS.........................           3,153           3,153
   130    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--CYBERSECURITY.................................          19,591          19,591
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       3,470,904       3,470,904
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   140    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION...........................................          19,155          19,155
   150    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................          21,668          21,668
   160    SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS...........................................          44,118          44,118
   170    MANPOWER MANAGEMENT..................................................           7,127           7,127
   180    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................          67,976          74,651
          Recruiting and advertising increase..................................                          [6,675]
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................         160,044         166,719
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   998    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0         -14,300
          Foreign currency fluctuations........................................                        [-10,900]
          Unobligated balances.................................................                         [-3,400]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0         -14,300
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES..............................       3,630,948       3,623,323
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    MANEUVER UNITS.......................................................         925,071         925,071
   020    MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES.............................................         201,781         201,781
   030    ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE...............................................         840,373         840,373
   040    THEATER LEVEL ASSETS.................................................         107,392         107,392
   050    LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......................................          62,908          62,908
   060    AVIATION ASSETS......................................................       1,113,908       1,113,908
   070    FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUPPORT...................................         832,946         832,946
   080    LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS........................................          50,696          50,696
   090    LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE........................................         231,784         231,784
   100    BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT..............................................       1,249,066       1,249,066
   110    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................       1,081,561       1,081,561
   120    MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS..............................       1,468,857       1,468,857
   130    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS.........................           9,566           9,566
   140    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--CYBERSECURITY.................................          15,710          15,710
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       8,191,619       8,191,619
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   150    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION...........................................           7,251           7,251
   160    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................          66,025          66,025
   170    SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS...........................................         113,366         113,366
   180    MANPOWER MANAGEMENT..................................................           8,663           8,663
   190    OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT..............................................         292,426         343,146
          Recruiting and advertising increase..................................                         [50,720]
   200    REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT...............................................           3,754           3,754
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................         491,485         542,205
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   998    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0         -52,400
          Foreign currency fluctuations........................................                        [-29,000]
          Unobligated balances.................................................                        [-23,400]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0         -52,400
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG..................................       8,683,104       8,681,424
 
          COUNTER ISIS TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND (CTEF)
          COUNTER ISIS TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND (CTEF)
   010    IRAQ.................................................................         241,950         241,950
   020    SYRIA................................................................         156,000         156,000
          SUBTOTAL COUNTER ISIS TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND (CTEF)....................         397,950         397,950
 
          TOTAL COUNTER ISIS TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND (CTEF).......................         397,950         397,950
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT OPERATIONS..................................       7,882,504       7,882,504
   020    FLEET AIR TRAINING...................................................       2,773,957       2,773,957
   030    AVIATION TECHNICAL DATA & ENGINEERING SERVICES.......................          73,047          73,047
   040    AIR OPERATIONS AND SAFETY SUPPORT....................................         213,862         213,862
   050    AIR SYSTEMS SUPPORT..................................................       1,155,463       1,158,463
          Advanced nucleated foam engine performance and restoration program...                          [3,000]
   060    AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE...........................................       1,857,021       1,857,021
   070    AIRCRAFT DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT....................................          66,822          66,822
   080    AVIATION LOGISTICS...................................................       1,871,670       1,871,670
   090    MISSION AND OTHER SHIP OPERATIONS....................................       7,015,796       7,015,796
   100    SHIP OPERATIONS SUPPORT & TRAINING...................................       1,301,108       1,301,108
   110    SHIP DEPOT MAINTENANCE...............................................      11,164,249      11,164,249
   120    SHIP DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT........................................       2,728,712       2,728,712
   130    COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS AND ELECTRONIC WARFARE.........................       1,776,881       1,776,881
   140    SPACE SYSTEMS AND SURVEILLANCE.......................................         389,915         389,915
   150    WARFARE TACTICS......................................................       1,005,998       1,005,998
   160    OPERATIONAL METEOROLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY.............................         455,330         455,330
   170    COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES................................................       2,350,089       2,356,089
          Naval Small Craft Instruction and Technical Training School..........                          [6,000]
   180    EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE AND DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT...................         189,044         189,044
   200    COMBATANT COMMANDERS CORE OPERATIONS.................................          92,504          92,504
   210    COMBATANT COMMANDERS DIRECT MISSION SUPPORT..........................         352,980         352,980
   230    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................         522,180         522,180
   240    FLEET BALLISTIC MISSILE..............................................       1,763,238       1,763,238
   250    WEAPONS MAINTENANCE..................................................       1,640,642       1,640,642
   260    OTHER WEAPON SYSTEMS SUPPORT.........................................         696,653         696,653
   270    ENTERPRISE INFORMATION...............................................       1,780,645       1,780,645
   280    SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION...........................       4,406,192       4,406,192
   290    BASE OPERATING SUPPORT...............................................       6,223,827       6,271,827
          Navy divestment of electrical utility operations at former Naval Air                          [48,000]
           Station Barbers Point...............................................
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................      61,750,329      61,807,329
 
          MOBILIZATION
   300    SHIP PREPOSITIONING AND SURGE........................................         475,255         475,255
   310    READY RESERVE FORCE..................................................         701,060         701,060
   320    SHIP ACTIVATIONS/INACTIVATIONS.......................................         302,930         302,930
   330    EXPEDITIONARY HEALTH SERVICES SYSTEMS................................         151,966         151,966
   340    COAST GUARD SUPPORT..................................................          21,464          21,464
          SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION................................................       1,652,675       1,652,675
 
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   350    OFFICER ACQUISITION..................................................         201,555         201,555
   360    RECRUIT TRAINING.....................................................          16,521          16,521
   370    RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS......................................         175,171         175,171
   380    SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING...........................................       1,238,894       1,238,894
   390    PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION...................................         335,603         335,603
   400    TRAINING SUPPORT.....................................................         390,931         390,931
   410    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................         269,483         355,328
          Navy Enlisted Training Corps.........................................                          [5,000]
          Recruiting and advertising increase..................................                         [80,845]
   420    OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY EDUCATION.....................................          90,452          90,452
   430    CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND TRAINING......................................          73,406          73,406
   440    JUNIOR ROTC..........................................................          58,970          58,970
          SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING.....................................       2,850,986       2,936,831
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   450    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................       1,350,449       1,350,449
   460    CIVILIAN MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT...........................         242,760         242,760
   470    MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT...........................         745,666         745,666
   490    MEDICAL ACTIVITIES...................................................         323,978         323,978
   500    DEF ACQUISITION WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT ACCOUNT........................          67,357          67,357
   510    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION...........................................         248,822         248,822
   530    PLANNING, ENGINEERING, AND PROGRAM SUPPORT...........................         616,816         616,816
   540    ACQUISITION, LOGISTICS, AND OVERSIGHT................................         850,906         850,906
   550    INVESTIGATIVE AND SECURITY SERVICES..................................         888,508         888,508
   999    CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................         655,281         655,281
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................       5,990,543       5,990,543
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   998    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0        -498,400
          Foreign currency fluctuations........................................                       [-236,300]
          Unobligated balances.................................................                       [-262,100]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0        -498,400
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY..................................      72,244,533      71,888,978
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    OPERATIONAL FORCES...................................................       1,799,964       1,799,964
   020    FIELD LOGISTICS......................................................       1,878,228       1,878,228
   030    DEPOT MAINTENANCE....................................................         211,460         211,460
   040    MARITIME PREPOSITIONING..............................................         137,831         137,831
   060    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................         205,449         205,449
   070    SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION.............................       1,211,183       1,211,183
   080    BASE OPERATING SUPPORT...............................................       3,124,551       3,124,551
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       8,568,666       8,568,666
 
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   090    RECRUIT TRAINING.....................................................          26,284          26,284
   100    OFFICER ACQUISITION..................................................           1,316           1,316
   110    SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING...........................................         133,176         133,176
   120    PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION...................................          66,213          66,213
   130    TRAINING SUPPORT.....................................................         570,152         570,152
   140    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................         246,586         300,903
          Marine Corps Enlisted Training Corps.................................                          [5,000]
          Recruiting and advertising increase..................................                         [49,317]
   150    OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY EDUCATION.....................................          55,230          55,230
   160    JUNIOR ROTC..........................................................          29,616          29,616
          SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING.....................................       1,128,573       1,182,890
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   180    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION...........................................          90,366          90,366
   190    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................         428,650         428,650
   999    CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................          65,658          65,658
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................         584,674         584,674
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   998    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0        -108,900
          Foreign currency fluctuations........................................                        [-33,800]
          Unobligated balances.................................................                        [-75,100]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0        -108,900
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS..........................      10,281,913      10,227,330
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT OPERATIONS..................................         731,113         731,113
   020    INTERMEDIATE MAINTENANCE.............................................          10,122          10,122
   030    AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE...........................................         167,811         167,811
   040    AIRCRAFT DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT....................................             103             103
   050    AVIATION LOGISTICS...................................................          29,185          29,185
   060    COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS................................................          20,806          20,806
   070    COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES................................................         186,590         186,590
   080    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................             296             296
   090    ENTERPRISE INFORMATION...............................................          32,467          32,467
   100    SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION...........................          63,726          63,726
   110    BASE OPERATING SUPPORT...............................................         121,064         121,064
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       1,363,283       1,363,283
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   120    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................           2,025           2,025
   130    MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT...........................          13,401          13,401
   140    ACQUISITION AND PROGRAM MANAGEMENT...................................           2,101           2,101
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................          17,527          17,527
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   998    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0          -8,100
          Foreign currency fluctuations........................................                         [-3,900]
          Unobligated balances.................................................                         [-4,200]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0          -8,100
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES..............................       1,380,810       1,372,710
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC RESERVE
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    OPERATING FORCES.....................................................         128,468         128,468
   020    DEPOT MAINTENANCE....................................................          20,967          20,967
   030    SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION...........................          46,589          46,589
   040    BASE OPERATING SUPPORT...............................................         120,808         120,808
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................         316,832         316,832
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   050    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................          12,563          12,563
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................          12,563          12,563
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   998    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0          -4,900
          Foreign currency fluctuations........................................                         [-3,900]
          Unobligated balances.................................................                         [-1,000]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0          -4,900
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC RESERVE............................         329,395         324,495
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES................................................         980,768         966,068
          DAF requested realignment of funds...................................                        [-14,700]
   020    COMBAT ENHANCEMENT FORCES............................................       2,665,924       2,665,924
   030    AIR OPERATIONS TRAINING (OJT, MAINTAIN SKILLS).......................       1,630,552       1,630,552
   040    DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE.................................       4,632,693       4,632,693
   050    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................       4,252,815       4,194,663
          DAF requested realignment of funds...................................                        [-58,152]
   060    CYBERSPACE SUSTAINMENT...............................................         229,440         229,440
   070    CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT......................       9,537,192       9,537,192
   080    FLYING HOUR PROGRAM..................................................       6,697,549       6,697,549
   090    BASE SUPPORT.........................................................      11,633,510      11,425,018
          DAF requested realignment of funds...................................                       [-223,192]
          DAF requested realignment of funds from SAG 11A......................                         [14,700]
   100    GLOBAL C3I AND EARLY WARNING.........................................       1,350,827       1,319,876
          DAF requested realignment of funds...................................                        [-30,951]
   110    OTHER COMBAT OPS SPT PROGRAMS........................................       1,817,941       1,817,941
   120    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................         807,966         807,966
   130    TACTICAL INTEL AND OTHER SPECIAL ACTIVITIES..........................         267,615         267,615
   160    US NORTHCOM/NORAD....................................................         245,263         245,263
   170    US STRATCOM..........................................................         541,720         541,720
   190    US CENTCOM...........................................................         335,220         329,220
          Office of Security Cooperation-Iraq reduction........................                         [-6,000]
   200    US SOCOM.............................................................          27,511          27,511
   210    US TRANSCOM..........................................................             607             607
   220    CENTCOM CYBERSPACE SUSTAINMENT.......................................           1,415           1,415
   230    USSPACECOM...........................................................         373,989         373,989
   240    MEDICAL READINESS....................................................         564,880         562,596
          DAF requested realignment of funds...................................                         [-2,284]
   999    CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................       1,465,926       1,465,926
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................      51,527,249      51,206,670
 
          MOBILIZATION
   260    AIRLIFT OPERATIONS...................................................       3,012,287       3,012,287
   270    MOBILIZATION PREPAREDNESS............................................         241,918         241,918
          SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION................................................       3,254,205       3,254,205
 
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   280    OFFICER ACQUISITION..................................................         202,769         202,769
   290    RECRUIT TRAINING.....................................................          28,892          28,892
   300    RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS (ROTC)...............................         137,647         137,647
   310    SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING...........................................         588,131         588,131
   320    FLIGHT TRAINING......................................................         875,230         875,230
   330    PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION...................................         301,262         301,262
   340    TRAINING SUPPORT.....................................................         194,609         194,609
   350    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................         204,318         250,182
          Air Force Enlisted Training Corps....................................                          [5,000]
          Recruiting and advertising increase..................................                         [40,864]
   360    EXAMINING............................................................           7,775           7,775
   370    OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY EDUCATION.....................................         263,421         263,421
   380    CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND TRAINING......................................         343,039         343,039
   390    JUNIOR ROTC..........................................................          75,666          75,666
          SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING.....................................       3,222,759       3,268,623
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   400    LOGISTICS OPERATIONS.................................................       1,062,199       1,062,199
   410    TECHNICAL SUPPORT ACTIVITIES.........................................         162,919         162,919
   420    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................       1,409,015       1,409,015
   430    SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS...........................................          30,268          30,268
   440    OTHER SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES.........................................       1,851,856       1,856,376
          DAF requested realignment of funds...................................                          [4,520]
   450    CIVIL AIR PATROL.....................................................          30,901          30,901
   460    DEF ACQUISITION WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT ACCOUNT........................          42,759          42,759
   480    INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT................................................         115,267         115,267
   999    CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................       1,506,624       1,506,624
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................       7,718,432       7,722,952
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   998    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0        -442,200
          Foreign currency fluctuations........................................                       [-208,500]
          Unobligated balances.................................................                       [-233,700]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0        -442,200
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE.............................      65,722,645      65,010,250
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, SPACE FORCE
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    GLOBAL C3I & EARLY WARNING...........................................         642,201         642,201
   020    SPACE LAUNCH OPERATIONS..............................................         356,162         356,162
   030    SPACE OPERATIONS.....................................................         866,547         866,547
   040    EDUCATION & TRAINING.................................................         199,181         217,353
          DAF requested realignment of funds...................................                         [18,172]
   050    SPECIAL PROGRAMS.....................................................         383,233         383,233
   060    DEPOT MAINTENANCE....................................................          67,757          67,757
   070    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................         678,648         678,648
   080    CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS AND SYSTEM SUPPORT..............................       1,380,350       1,380,350
   090    SPACE OPERATIONS -BOS................................................         188,760         188,760
   999    CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................          71,475          71,475
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       4,834,314       4,852,486
 
          ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE WIDE ACTIVITIES
   100    LOGISTICS OPERATIONS.................................................          34,046          34,046
   110    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................         149,108         130,936
          DAF requested realignment of funds...................................                        [-18,172]
          SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE WIDE ACTIVITIES..................         183,154         164,982
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   998    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0         -87,100
          Foreign currency fluctuations........................................                        [-14,100]
          Unobligated balances.................................................                        [-73,000]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0         -87,100
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, SPACE FORCE...........................       5,017,468       4,930,368
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF RESERVE
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES................................................       2,088,949       2,116,429
          Military technician (dual status) end strength.......................                         [27,480]
   020    MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS...........................................         198,213         198,213
   030    DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE.................................         647,758         647,758
   040    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................         122,314         122,314
   050    CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT......................         374,442         374,442
   060    BASE SUPPORT.........................................................         543,962         543,962
   070    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................           1,742           1,742
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       3,977,380       4,004,860
 
          ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES
   080    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................         107,281         107,281
   090    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................           9,373          11,248
          Recruiting and advertising increase..................................                          [1,875]
   100    MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERS MGMT (ARPC)...............................          15,563          15,563
   110    OTHER PERS SUPPORT (DISABILITY COMP).................................           6,174           6,174
   120    AUDIOVISUAL..........................................................             485             485
          SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES...................         138,876         140,751
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   998    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0         -46,700
          Foreign currency fluctuations........................................                        [-12,500]
          Unobligated balances.................................................                        [-34,200]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0         -46,700
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF RESERVE............................       4,116,256       4,098,911
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS..................................................       2,498,675       2,498,675
   020    MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS...........................................         656,714         796,394
          Military technician (dual status) end strength.......................                        [139,680]
   030    DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE.................................       1,171,901       1,171,901
   040    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................         370,188         370,188
   050    CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT......................       1,280,003       1,280,003
   060    BASE SUPPORT.........................................................       1,089,579       1,089,579
   070    CYBERSPACE SUSTAINMENT...............................................          19,708          19,708
   080    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................          49,476          49,476
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       7,136,244       7,275,924
 
          ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
   090    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................          68,417          68,417
   100    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................          49,033          72,433
          Recruiting and advertising increase..................................                         [23,400]
          SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES..................         117,450         140,850
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   998    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0         -46,200
          Foreign currency fluctuations........................................                        [-24,300]
          Unobligated balances.................................................                        [-21,900]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0         -46,200
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG...................................       7,253,694       7,370,574
 
          OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF................................................         461,370         457,770
          Unobligated balances.................................................                         [-3,600]
   020    JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF--JTEEP.........................................         701,081         701,081
   030    JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF--CYBER.........................................           8,210           8,210
   040    OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE--MISO.............................         252,480         252,480
   060    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND COMBAT DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES.............       2,012,953       2,012,953
   070    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND MAINTENANCE...............................       1,210,930       1,206,930
          MQ-9 Unmanned Aerial Vehicle unjustified increase....................                         [-4,000]
   080    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND MANAGEMENT/OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS.......         202,574         202,574
   090    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND THEATER FORCES............................       3,346,004       3,351,004
          Special Operations Forces cyber training.............................                          [5,000]
   100    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES.....................          49,757          49,757
   110    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND INTELLIGENCE..............................       1,391,402       1,391,402
   120    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND OPERATIONAL SUPPORT.......................       1,438,967       1,438,967
   130    CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS................................................       1,318,614       1,328,614
          Modernization of Department of Defense Internet Gateway Cyber Defense                         [10,000]
   140    USCYBERCOM HEADQUARTERS..............................................         332,690         332,690
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................      12,727,032      12,734,432
 
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   150    DEFENSE ACQUISITION UNIVERSITY.......................................         183,342         183,342
   160    JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF................................................         118,172         118,172
   170    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND/PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION........          33,855          33,855
          SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING.....................................         335,369         335,369
 
          ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
   180    CIVIL MILITARY PROGRAMS..............................................         142,240         139,740
          Unobligated balances.................................................                         [-2,500]
   190    DEFENSE CONTRACT AUDIT AGENCY--CYBER.................................           4,870           4,870
   200    DEFENSE CONTRACT AUDIT AGENCY........................................         667,943         665,243
          Unobligated balances.................................................                         [-2,700]
   210    DEFENSE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT AGENCY...................................       1,567,119       1,551,619
          Unobligated balances.................................................                        [-15,500]
   220    DEFENSE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT AGENCY--CYBER............................          30,279          20,279
          Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification program reduction.........                        [-10,000]
   230    DEFENSE COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY AGENCY......................       1,062,123       1,062,123
   250    DEFENSE COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY AGENCY--CYBER...............           9,835           9,835
   260    DEFENSE HUMAN RESOURCES ACTIVITY--CYBER..............................          27,517          27,517
   270    DEFENSE HUMAN RESOURCES ACTIVITY.....................................       1,033,789       1,033,789
   300    DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS AGENCY...................................       2,567,698       2,557,798
          Unobligated balances.................................................                         [-9,900]
   310    DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS AGENCY--CYBER............................         526,893         526,893
   320    DEFENSE LEGAL SERVICES AGENCY........................................         241,779         219,379
          Unobligated balances.................................................                        [-22,400]
   330    DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY.............................................         446,731         446,731
   340    DEFENSE MEDIA ACTIVITY...............................................         246,840         246,840
   360    DEFENSE POW/MIA OFFICE...............................................         195,959         195,959
   370    DEFENSE SECURITY COOPERATION AGENCY..................................       2,379,100       2,389,100
          Irregular Warfare Functional Center..................................                         [10,000]
   380    DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY SECURITY ADMINISTRATION...........................          41,722          41,722
   390    DEFENSE THREAT REDUCTION AGENCY......................................         984,272         984,272
   410    DEFENSE THREAT REDUCTION AGENCY--CYBER...............................          70,548          70,548
   420    DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EDUCATION ACTIVITY.............................       3,451,625       3,531,625
          Impact Aid...........................................................                         [50,000]
          Impact Aid for children with severe disabilities.....................                         [30,000]
   430    MISSILE DEFENSE AGENCY...............................................         564,078         564,078
   440    OFFICE OF THE LOCAL DEFENSE COMMUNITY COOPERATION....................         118,216         138,216
          Defense Manufacturing Community Support Program......................                         [20,000]
   480    OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE--CYBER............................          92,176          92,176
   490    OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE...................................       2,676,416       2,718,116
          Bien Hoa dioxin cleanup..............................................                         [15,000]
          Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Nation-wide human health                            [5,000]
           assessment..........................................................
          Readiness and Environmental Protection Integration program...........                         [20,200]
          United States Telecommunications Training Institute..................                          [1,500]
   530    WASHINGTON HEADQUARTERS SERVICES.....................................         440,947         440,947
   999    CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................      20,114,447      20,114,447
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES..................................      39,705,162      39,793,862
 
          TOTAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE........................      52,767,563      52,863,663
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE
   997    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0         -51,000
          Program reduction--USSOCOM...........................................                        [-51,000]
   998    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0         -15,000
          Unobligated balances.................................................                        [-15,000]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0         -66,000
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE..........................               0         -66,000
 
          MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
          US COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE ARMED FORCES, DEF
   010    US COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE ARMED FORCES, DEFENSE....................          16,620          16,620
          SUBTOTAL US COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE ARMED FORCES, DEF...............          16,620          16,620
 
          TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS...................................          16,620          16,620
 
          MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
          OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN, DISASTER, AND CIVIC AID
   010    OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN, DISASTER AND CIVIC AID........................         114,900         114,900
          SUBTOTAL OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN, DISASTER, AND CIVIC AID..............         114,900         114,900
 
          TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS...................................         114,900         114,900
 
          MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
          COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION ACCOUNT
   010    COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION.........................................         350,999         350,999
          SUBTOTAL COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION ACCOUNT........................         350,999         350,999
 
          TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS...................................         350,999         350,999
 
          MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
          ACQUISITION WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT
   010    ACQ WORKFORCE DEV FD.................................................          54,977          54,977
          SUBTOTAL ACQUISITION WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT...........................          54,977          54,977
 
          TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS...................................          54,977          54,977
 
          MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
          ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, ARMY
   050    ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, ARMY......................................         198,760         198,760
          SUBTOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, ARMY.............................         198,760         198,760
 
          TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS...................................         198,760         198,760
 
          MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
          ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, NAVY
   060    ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, NAVY......................................         335,240         335,240
          SUBTOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, NAVY.............................         335,240         335,240
 
          TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS...................................         335,240         335,240
 
          MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
          ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, AIR FORCE
   070    ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, AIR FORCE.................................         349,744         349,744
          SUBTOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, AIR FORCE........................         349,744         349,744
 
          TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS...................................         349,744         349,744
 
          MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
          ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, DEFENSE
   080    ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, DEFENSE...................................           8,965           8,965
          SUBTOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, DEFENSE..........................           8,965           8,965
 
          TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS...................................           8,965           8,965
 
          MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
          ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION FORMERLY USED SITES
   090    ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION FORMERLY USED SITES........................         232,806         232,806
          SUBTOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION FORMERLY USED SITES...............         232,806         232,806
 
          TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS...................................         232,806         232,806
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE........................................     293,043,843     291,746,996
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                     TITLE XLIV--MILITARY PERSONNEL

SEC. 4401. MILITARY PERSONNEL.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
         SEC. 4401. MILITARY PERSONNEL (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            FY 2024           Senate
                 Item                       Request         Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
MILITARY PERSONNEL
MILITARY PERSONNEL APPROPRIATIONS
MILITARY PERSONNEL APPROPRIATIONS.....     168,320,510      166,779,670
Air Force end strength underexecution.                        [-564,000]
Air National Guard AGR end strength                            [-45,600]
 underexecution.......................
Air National Reserve AGR end strength                           [-8,040]
 underexecution.......................
Navy end strength underexecution......                        [-600,000]
Unobligated balances..................                        [-323,200]
SUBTOTAL MILITARY PERSONNEL                168,320,510      166,779,670
 APPROPRIATIONS.......................
 
MEDICARE-ELIGIBLE RETIREE HEALTH CARE
 FUND CONTRIBUTIONS
MEDICARE-ELIGIBLE RETIREE HEALTH CARE       10,553,456       10,553,456
 FUND CONTRIBUTIONS...................
SUBTOTAL MEDICARE-ELIGIBLE RETIREE          10,553,456       10,553,456
 HEALTH CARE FUND CONTRIBUTIONS.......
 
TOTAL MILITARY PERSONNEL..............     178,873,966      177,333,126
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                    TITLE XLV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 4501. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
       SEC. 4501. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS  (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              FY 2024         Senate
  Line                 Item                   Request       Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         WORKING CAPITAL FUND
         WORKING CAPITAL FUND, ARMY
   010   INDUSTRIAL OPERATIONS..........          27,551          27,551
   020   SUPPLY MANAGEMENT--ARMY........           1,662           1,662
         SUBTOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND,           29,213          29,213
          ARMY..........................
 
         WORKING CAPITAL FUND, AIR FORCE
   020   SUPPLIES AND MATERIALS.........          83,587          83,587
         SUBTOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND,           83,587          83,587
          AIR FORCE.....................
 
         NATIONAL DEFENSE STOCKPILE
          TRANSACTION FUND
   010   DEFENSE STOCKPILE..............           7,629           7,629
         SUBTOTAL NATIONAL DEFENSE                 7,629           7,629
          STOCKPILE TRANSACTION FUND....
 
         WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DEFENSE-
          WIDE
   010   DEFENSE AUTOMATION & PRODUCTION               4               4
          SERVICES......................
   040   ENERGY MANAGEMENT--DEF.........         114,663         114,663
         SUBTOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND,          114,667         114,667
          DEFENSE-WIDE..................
 
         WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DECA
   010   WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DECA.....       1,447,612       1,447,612
         SUBTOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND,        1,447,612       1,447,612
          DECA..........................
 
         TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND.....       1,682,708       1,682,708
 
         CHEM AGENTS & MUNITIONS
          DESTRUCTION
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE
     1   CHEM DEMILITARIZATION--O&M.....          89,284          89,284
         SUBTOTAL OPERATION &                     89,284          89,284
          MAINTENANCE...................
 
         RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST,
          AND EVALUATION
     2   CHEM DEMILITARIZATION--RDT&E...       1,002,560       1,002,560
         SUBTOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT,       1,002,560       1,002,560
          TEST, AND EVALUATION..........
 
         TOTAL CHEM AGENTS & MUNITIONS         1,091,844       1,091,844
          DESTRUCTION...................
 
         DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG
          ACTIVITIES, DEF
         DRUG INTRDCTN
   010   COUNTER-NARCOTICS SUPPORT......         643,848         643,848
         SUBTOTAL DRUG INTRDCTN.........         643,848         643,848
 
         DRUG DEMAND REDUCTION PROGRAM
   020   DRUG DEMAND REDUCTION PROGRAM..         134,313         134,313
         SUBTOTAL DRUG DEMAND REDUCTION          134,313         134,313
          PROGRAM.......................
 
         NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-DRUG
          PROGRAM
   030   NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-DRUG             102,272         102,272
          PROGRAM.......................
         SUBTOTAL NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-        102,272         102,272
          DRUG PROGRAM..................
 
         NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-DRUG
          SCHOOLS
   040   NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-DRUG               5,993           5,993
          SCHOOLS.......................
         SUBTOTAL NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-          5,993           5,993
          DRUG SCHOOLS..................
 
         TOTAL DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-          886,426         886,426
          DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEF..........
 
         OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
         OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
   010   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE......         518,919         518,919
   020   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE......           1,948           1,948
   030   RDT&E..........................           3,400           3,400
   040   PROCUREMENT....................           1,098           1,098
         SUBTOTAL OFFICE OF THE                  520,867         520,867
          INSPECTOR GENERAL.............
         SUBTOTAL OFFICE OF THE                    3,400           3,400
          INSPECTOR GENERAL.............
         SUBTOTAL OFFICE OF THE                    1,098           1,098
          INSPECTOR GENERAL.............
 
         TOTAL OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR           525,365         525,365
          GENERAL.......................
 
         DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE
   010   IN-HOUSE CARE..................      10,044,342      10,044,342
   020   PRIVATE SECTOR CARE............      19,893,028      19,893,028
   030   CONSOLIDATED HEALTH SUPPORT....       2,007,012       2,007,012
   040   INFORMATION MANAGEMENT.........       2,327,816       2,327,816
   050   MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES..........         347,446         347,446
   060   EDUCATION AND TRAINING.........         336,111         336,111
   070   BASE OPERATIONS/COMMUNICATIONS.       2,144,551       2,144,551
         SUBTOTAL OPERATION &                 37,100,306      37,100,306
          MAINTENANCE...................
 
         RDT&E
   080   R&D RESEARCH...................          40,311          40,311
   090   R&D EXPLORATRY DEVELOPMENT.....         178,892         178,892
   100   R&D ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT.......         327,040         327,040
   110   R&D DEMONSTRATION/VALIDATION...         172,351         172,351
   120   R&D ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT....         107,753         107,753
   130   R&D MANAGEMENT AND SUPPORT.....          87,096          87,096
   140   R&D CAPABILITIES ENHANCEMENT...          18,330          18,330
         SUBTOTAL RDT&E.................         931,773         931,773
 
         PROCUREMENT
   150   PROC INITIAL OUTFITTING........          22,344          22,344
   160   PROC REPLACEMENT &                      238,435         238,435
          MODERNIZATION.................
   170   PROC JOINT OPERATIONAL MEDICINE          29,537          29,537
          INFORMATION SYSTEM............
   180   PROC MILITARY HEALTH SYSTEM--            74,055          74,055
          DESKTOP TO DATACENTER.........
   190   PROC DOD HEALTHCARE MANAGEMENT           17,510          17,510
          SYSTEM MODERNIZATION..........
         SUBTOTAL PROCUREMENT...........         381,881         381,881
 
         TOTAL DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM...      38,413,960      38,413,960
 
         TOTAL OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS.....      42,600,303      42,600,303
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                   TITLE XLVI--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 4601. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                           SEC. 4601. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION (In Thousands of Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                           State/Country and                                          FY 2024         Senate
        Account               Installation                Project Title               Request       Authorized
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
ARMY
                         Alabama                ................................
Army                       Anniston Army Depot  OPEN STORAGE (P&D)                             0             270
Army                       Redstone Arsenal     SUBSTATION                                50,000          50,000
                         Alaska                 ................................
Army                       Fort Wainwright      COST TO COMPLETE: ENLISTED                34,000          34,000
                                                 UNACCOMPANIED PERS HSG
Army                       Fort Wainwright      SOLDER PERFORMANCE READINESS                   0           7,900
                                                 CENTER (P&D)
                         Georgia                ................................
Army                       Fort Eisenhower      CYBER INSTRUCTIONAL FACILITY             163,000          73,000
                                                 (CLASSROOMS)
                         Germany                ................................
Army                       Grafenwoehr          AUTOMATED MULTIPURPOSE MACHINE            10,400          10,400
                                                 GUN RANGE
Army                       Hohenfels            SIMULATIONS CENTER                        56,000          56,000
                         Hawaii                 ................................
Army                       Aliamanu Military    WATER STORAGE TANK                        20,000          20,000
                            Reservation
Army                       Fort Shafter         CLEARWELL AND BOOSTER PUMP                     0          23,000
Army                       Helemano Military    WELLS AND STORAGE TANK                         0          33,000
                            Reservation
Army                       Schofield Barracks   ELEVATED TANK AND DISTRIBUTION                 0          21,000
                                                 LINE
Army                       Schofield Barracks   WATER STORAGE TANK                             0          16,000
Army                       Wheeler Army         AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL TOWER (P&D)                0           5,400
                            Airfield
                         Indiana                ................................
Army                       Crane Army           EARTH COVERED MAGAZINES (P&D)                  0           1,195
                            Ammunition Plant
                         Kansas                 ................................
Army                       Fort Riley           AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL TOWER (P&D)                0           1,600
Army                       Fort Riley           AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE HANGER              105,000         105,000
                         Kentucky               ................................
Army                       Blue Grass Army      SMALL ARMS MODERNIZATION (P&D)                 0           3,300
                            Depot
Army                       Fort Campbell        AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL TOWER (P&D)                0           2,500
Army                       Fort Campbell        MULTIPURPOSE TRAINING RANGE               38,000          38,000
Army                       Fort Knox            MIDDLE SCHOOL ADDITION (P&D)                   0           6,600
                         Kwajalein              ................................
Army                       Kwajalein Atoll      COST TO COMPLETE: PIER                         0          15,000
                         Louisiana              ................................
Army                       Fort Johnson         MULTIPURPOSE ATHLETIC FIELD                    0          13,400
                         Massachusetts          ................................
Army                       Soldier Systems      BARRACKS ADDITION                         18,500          18,500
                            Center Natick
                         Michigan               ................................
Army                       Detroit Arsenal      GROUND TRANSPORT EQUIPMENT                72,000          72,000
                                                 BUILDING
                         New Mexico             ................................
Army                       White Sands Missile  J-DETC DIRECTED ENERGY FACILITY                0           5,500
                            Range                (P&D)
                         New York               ................................
Army                       Watervliet Arsenal   TANK FARM (P&D)                                0             160
                         North Carolina         ................................
Army                       Fort Liberty         AUTOMATED RECORD FIRE RANGE               19,500          19,500
Army                       Fort Liberty         BARRACKS                                  50,000          50,000
Army                       Fort Liberty         BARRACKS (FACILITY PROTOTYPING)           85,000          85,000
                         Oklahoma               ................................
Army                       McAlester Army       WATER TREATMENT PLANT (P&D)                    0           1,194
                            Ammunition Plant
                         Pennsylvania           ................................
Army                       Letterkenny Army     ANECHOIC CHAMBER (P&D)                         0             275
                            Depot
Army                       Letterkenny Army     GUIDED MISSILE MAINTENANCE                89,000          89,000
                            Depot                BUILDING
Army                       Tobyhanna Army       HELIPAD (P&D)                                  0             311
                            Depot
Army                       Tobyhanna Army       RADAR MAINTENANCE SHOP (P&D)                   0             259
                            Depot
                         Poland                 ................................
Army                       Various Locations    PLANNING & DESIGN                              0          25,710
                         South Carolina         ................................
Army                       Fort Jackson         COST TO COMPLETE: RECEPTION                    0          66,000
                                                 BARRACKS COMPLEX, PHASE 2
                         Texas                  ................................
Army                       Fort Bliss           RAIL YARD                                 74,000          74,000
Army                       Fort Cavazos         BARRACKS (P&D)                                 0          20,000
Army                       Fort Cavazos         TACTICAL EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE                 0           5,800
                                                 FACILITIES (P&D)
Army                       Red River Army       COMPONENT REBUILD SHOP                   113,000          46,400
                            Depot
Army                       Red River Army       NON-DESTRUCTIVE TESTING FACILITY               0             280
                            Depot                (P&D)
Army                       Red River Army       STANDBY GENERATOR (P&D)                        0             270
                            Depot
                         Virginia               ................................
Army                       Fort Belvoir         EQUINE TRAINING FACILITY (P&D)                 0           4,000
                         Washington             ................................
Army                       Joint Base Lewis-    BARRACKS                                 100,000         100,000
                            McChord
Army                       Joint Base Lewis-    VEHICLE MAINTENANCE SHOP (P&D)                 0           7,500
                            McChord
                         Worldwide Unspecified  ................................
Army                       Unspecified          BARRACKS REPLACEMENT FUND                      0          50,000
                            Worldwide
Army                       Unspecified          HOST NATION SUPPORT                       26,000          26,000
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Army                       Unspecified          MINOR CONSTRUCTION                        76,280          76,280
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Army                       Unspecified          PLANNING & DESIGN                        270,875         270,875
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
                         .....................  ................................
      Subtotal Military Construction, Army                                             1,470,555       1,651,379
                           ...................  ................................
NAVY
                         Australia              ................................
Navy                       Royal Australian     PDI: AIRCRAFT PARKING APRON              134,624         134,624
                            Air Force Base       (INC)
                            Darwin
                         California             ................................
Navy                       Marine Corps Air     COMMUNICATIONS TOWERS                     42,100          42,100
                            Ground Combat
                            Center Twentynine
                            Palms
Navy                       Port Hueneme         LABORATORY COMPOUND FACILITIES           110,000          15,000
                                                 IMPROVEMENTS
                         Connecticut            ................................
Navy                       Naval Submarine      SUBMARINE PIER 31 EXTENSION              112,518          36,718
                            Base New London
Navy                       Naval Submarine      WEAPONS MAGAZINE & ORDNANCE              219,200          19,200
                            Base New London      OPERATIONS FAC.
                         District of Columbia   ................................
Navy                       Marine Barracks      BACHELOR ENLISTED QUARTERS &             131,800          16,800
                            Washington           SUPPORT FACILITY
                         Djibouti               ................................
Navy                       Camp Lemonnier       ELECTRICAL POWER PLANT                         0          20,000
                         Florida                ................................
Navy                       Naval Air Station    AHTS HANGAR                                    0          50,000
                            Whiting Field
                         Guam                   ................................
Navy                       Andersen Air Force   PDI: CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTER            105,220          55,220
                            Base
Navy                       Andersen Air Force   PDI: JOINT CONSOL. COMM. CENTER          107,000         107,000
                            Base                 (INC)
Navy                       Joint Region         PDI: JOINT COMMUNICATION UPGRADE         292,830          31,330
                            Marianas             (INC)
Navy                       Joint Region         PDI: MISSILE INTEGRATION TEST            174,540          44,540
                            Marianas             FACILITY
Navy                       Naval Base Guam      PDI: 9TH ESB TRAINING COMPLEX             23,380          23,380
Navy                       Naval Base Guam      PDI: ARTILLERY BATTERY                   137,550          67,550
                                                 FACILITIES
Navy                       Naval Base Guam      PDI: CONSOLIDATED MEB HQ/NCIS             19,740          19,740
                                                 PHII
Navy                       Naval Base Guam      PDI: RECREATION CENTER                    34,740          34,740
Navy                       Naval Base Guam      PDI: RELIGIOUS MINISTRY SERVICES          46,350          46,350
                                                 FACILITY
Navy                       Naval Base Guam      PDI: SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS            166,159          56,159
                                                 FACILITY (INC)
Navy                       Naval Base Guam      PDI: TRAINING CENTER                      89,640          89,640
                         Hawaii                 ................................
Navy                       Joint Base Pearl     DRY DOCK 3 REPLACEMENT (INC)           1,318,711       1,318,711
                            Harbor-Hickam
Navy                       Joint Base Pearl     WATERFRONT PRODUCTION FACILITY                 0          60,000
                            Harbor-Hickam        (P&D)
Navy                       Marine Corps Base    WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY                     0          40,000
                            Kaneohe Bay          COMPLIANCE UPGRADE
                         Italy                  ................................
Navy                       Naval Air Station    EDI: ORDNANCE MAGAZINES                   77,072          77,072
                            Sigonella
                         Maine                  ................................
Navy                       Portsmouth Naval     MULTI-MISSION DRYDOCK #1                 544,808         544,808
                            Shipyard             EXTENSION (INC)
                         Maryland               ................................
Navy                       Fort Meade           CYBERSECURITY OPERATIONS                 186,480          60,580
                                                 FACILITY
Navy                       Naval Air Station    AIRCRAFT DEVELOPMENT AND                 141,700          62,000
                            Patuxent River       MAINTENANCE FACILITIES
                         North Carolina         ................................
Navy                       Marine Corps Air     2D LAAD MAINTENANCE AND                        0          50,000
                            Station Cherry       OPERATIONS FACILITIES
                            Point
Navy                       Marine Corps Air     AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE HANGAR               19,529          19,529
                            Station Cherry       (INC)
                            Point
Navy                       Marine Corps Air     MAINTENANCE FACILITY & MARINE            125,150          40,150
                            Station Cherry       AIR GROUP HQS
                            Point
Navy                       Marine Corps Base    10TH MARINES MAINTENANCE &                     0          20,000
                            Camp Lejeune         OPERATIONS COMPLEX
Navy                       Marine Corps Base    CORROSION REPAIR FACILITY                      0          20,000
                            Camp Lejeune         REPLACEMENT
                         Pennsylvania           ................................
Navy                       Naval Surface        AI MACHINERY CONTROL DEVELOPMENT               0          88,200
                            Warfare Center       CENTER
                            Philadelphia
                         Virginia               ................................
Navy                       Dam Neck Annex       MARITIME SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM             109,680         109,680
                                                 FACILITY
Navy                       Joint Expeditionary  CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTER                  35,000          35,000
                            Base Little Creek--
                            Fort Story
Navy                       Marine Corps Base    WATER TREATMENT PLANT                    127,120          37,120
                            Quantico
Navy                       Naval Station        CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTER                  43,600          43,600
                            Norfolk
Navy                       Naval Station        MQ-25 AIRCRAFT LAYDOWN                   114,495          11,495
                            Norfolk              FACILITIES
Navy                       Naval Station        SUBMARINE PIER 3 (INC)                    99,077          99,077
                            Norfolk
Navy                       Naval Weapons        WEAPONS MAGAZINES                        221,920          46,920
                            Station Yorktown
Navy                       Norfolk Naval        DRY DOCK SALTWATER SYSTEM FOR             81,082          81,082
                            Shipyard             CVN-78 (INC)
                         Washington             ................................
Navy                       Naval Base Kitsap    ALTERNATE POWER TRANSMISSION                   0          19,000
                                                 LINE
Navy                       Naval Base Kitsap    ARMORED FIGHTING VEHICLE SUPPORT               0          31,000
                                                 FACILITY
Navy                       Naval Base Kitsap    SHIPYARD ELECTRICAL BACKBONE             195,000          15,000
                         Worldwide Unspecified  ................................
Navy                       Unspecified          BARRACKS REPLACEMENT FUND                      0          75,000
                            Worldwide
Navy                       Unspecified          INDOPACOM PLANNING & DESIGN                    0          69,000
                            Worldwide
Navy                       Unspecified          SIOP (P&D)                                     0          50,000
                            Worldwide
Navy                       Unspecified          PLANNING & DESIGN                        578,942         578,942
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Navy                       Unspecified          PLANNING & DESIGN                         21,000          21,000
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Navy                       Unspecified          UNSPECIFIED MINOR CONSTRUCTION            34,430          34,430
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
                         .....................  ................................
      Subtotal Military Construction, Navy                                             6,022,187       4,668,487
                           ...................  ................................
AIR FORCE
                         Alaska                 ................................
Air Force                  Eielson Air Force    CONSOLIDATED MUNITIONS COMPLEX                 0           1,200
                            Base                 (P&D)
Air Force                  Eielson Air Force    JOINT PACIFIC ALASKA RANGE                     0           1,100
                            Base                 COMPLEX (JPARC) OPS FACILITY
                                                 (P&D)
Air Force                  Joint Base           EXTEND RUNWAY 16/34 (INC 3)              107,500         107,500
                            Elmendorf-
                            Richardson
Air Force                  Joint Base           PRECISION GUIDED MISSILE COMPLEX               0           6,100
                            Elmendorf-           (P&D)
                            Richardson
                         Arizona                ................................
Air Force                  Luke Air Force Base  GILA BEND (P&D)                                0           2,600
                         Australia              ................................
Air Force                  Royal Australian     PDI: SQUADRON OPERATIONS                  26,000          26,000
                            Air Force Base       FACILITY
                            Darwin
Air Force                  Royal Australian     PDI: AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE                 17,500          17,500
                            Air Force Base       SUPPORT FACILITY
                            Tindal
Air Force                  Royal Australian     PDI: SQUADRON OPERATIONS                  20,000          20,000
                            Air Force Base       FACILITY
                            Tindal
Air Force                  Royal Australian     PDI: BOMBER APRON                         93,000          93,000
                            Air Force Base
                            Tindal
                         Florida                ................................
Air Force                  MacDill Air Force    KC-46A ADAL AIRCRAFT CORROSION            25,000          25,000
                            Base                 CONTROL
Air Force                  MacDill Air Force    KC-46A ADAL AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE          27,000          27,000
                            Base                 HANGAR
Air Force                  MacDill Air Force    KC-46A ADAL APRON & HYDRANT               61,000          61,000
                            Base                 FUELING PITS
Air Force                  MacDill Air Force    KC-46A ADAL FUEL SYSTEM                   18,000          18,000
                            Base                 MAINTENANCE DOCK
Air Force                  Patrick Space Force  COMMERCIAL VEHICLE INSPECTION             15,000          15,000
                            Base
Air Force                  Patrick Space Force  COST TO COMPLETE: CONSOLIDATED            15,000          15,000
                            Base                 COMMUNICATIONS CENTER
Air Force                  Patrick Space Force  FINAL DENIAL BARRIERS, SOUTH              12,000          12,000
                            Base                 GATE
Air Force                  Tyndall Air Force    NATURAL DISASTER RECOVERY                      0         252,000
                            Base
                         Georgia                ................................
Air Force                  Robins Air Force     BATTLE MANAGEMENT COMBINED               115,000         115,000
                            Base                 OPERATIONS COMPLEX
                         Guam                   ................................
Air Force                  Joint Region         PDI: NORTH AIRCRAFT PARKING RAMP         109,000         109,000
                            Marianas             (INC)
                         Japan                  ................................
Air Force                  Kadena Air Base      PDI: HELO RESCUE OPS MAINTENANCE          46,000          46,000
                                                 HANGAR (INC 3)
Air Force                  Kadena Air Base      PDI: THEATER A/C CORROSION                42,000          42,000
                                                 CONTROL CTR (INC)
                         Louisiana              ................................
Air Force                  Barksdale Air Force  CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTER (P&D)                 0           2,000
                            Base
Air Force                  Barksdale Air Force  DORMITORY (P&D)                                0           7,000
                            Base
Air Force                  Barksdale Air Force  WEAPONS GENERATION FACILITY (INC         112,000         112,000
                            Base                 3)
                         Mariana Islands        ................................
Air Force                  Tinian               PDI: AIRFIELD DEVELOPMENT, PHASE          26,000          26,000
                                                 1 (INC 3)
Air Force                  Tinian               PDI: FUEL TANKS W/PIPELINE &              20,000          20,000
                                                 HYDRANT (INC 3)
Air Force                  Tinian               PDI: PARKING APRON (INC 3)                32,000          32,000
                         Massachusetts          ................................
Air Force                  Hanscom Air Force    CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTER                  37,000          37,000
                            Base
Air Force                  Hanscom Air Force    MIT-LINCOLN LAB (WEST LAB CSL/            70,000          70,000
                            Base                 MIF) (INC 4)
                         Mississippi            ................................
Air Force                  Columbus Air Force   T-7A GROUND BASED TRAINING                30,000          30,000
                            Base                 SYSTEM FACILITY
Air Force                  Columbus Air Force   T-7A UNIT MAINTENANCE TRAINING             9,500           9,500
                            Base                 FACILITY
Air Force                  Keesler Air Force    AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL TOWER (P&D)                0           2,000
                            Base
                         Nebraska               ................................
Air Force                  Offutt Air Force     55 CES MAINTENANCE/WAREHOUSE                   0           4,500
                            Base                 (P&D)
Air Force                  Offutt Air Force     BASE OPERATIONS/MOBILITY CENTER                0           5,000
                            Base                 (P&D)
Air Force                  Offutt Air Force     LOGISTICS READINESS SQUADRON                   0           3,500
                            Base                 TRANSPORTATION FACILITY (P&D)
                         Nevada                 ................................
Air Force                  Nellis Air Force     F-35 COALITION HANGAR (P&D)                    0           5,500
                            Base
Air Force                  Nellis Air Force     F-35 DATA LAB SUPPORT FACILITY                 0             700
                            Base                 (P&D)
                         New Mexico             ................................
Air Force                  Cannon Air Force     SATELLITE FIRE STATION (P&D)                   0           5,000
                            Base
Air Force                  Kirtland Air Force   COST TO COMPLETE: WYOMING GATE                 0          24,400
                            Base                 UPGRADE FOR ANTITERRORISM
                                                 COMPLIANCE
                         Norway                 ................................
Air Force                  Rygge Air Station    EDI: DABS-FEV STORAGE                     88,000          88,000
Air Force                  Rygge Air Station    EDI: MUNITIONS STORAGE AREA               31,000          31,000
                         Ohio                   ................................
Air Force                  Wright-Patterson     ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT COMPLEX                 0          19,500
                            Air Force Base       PHASE V (P&D)
                         Oklahoma               ................................
Air Force                  Tinker Air Force     KC-46 3-BAY DEPOT MAINTENANCE             78,000          78,000
                            Base                 HANGAR (INC 3)
Air Force                  Vance Air Force      CONSOLIDATED UNDERGRADUATE PILOT               0           8,400
                            Base                 TRAINING CENTER (P&D)
                         Philippines            ................................
Air Force                  Cesar Basa Air Base  PDI: TRANSIENT AIRCRAFT PARKING           35,000          35,000
                                                 APRON
                         South Dakota           ................................
Air Force                  Ellsworth Air Force  B-21 FUEL SYSTEM MAINTENANCE              75,000          75,000
                            Base                 DOCK
Air Force                  Ellsworth Air Force  B-21 PHASE HANGAR                        160,000         160,000
                            Base
Air Force                  Ellsworth Air Force  B-21 WEAPONS GENERATION FACILITY         160,000         160,000
                            Base                 (INC)
                         Spain                  ................................
Air Force                  Moron Air Base       EDI: MUNITIONS STORAGE                    26,000          26,000
                         Texas                  ................................
Air Force                  Joint Base San       CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTER                  20,000          20,000
                            Antonio-Lackland
                         United Kingdom         ................................
Air Force                  Royal Air Force      COST TO COMPLETE: EDI DABS-FEV                 0          28,000
                            Fairford             STORAGE
Air Force                  Royal Air Force      COST TO COMPLETE: EDI MUNITIONS                0          20,000
                            Fairford             HOLDING AREA
Air Force                  Royal Air Force      EDI: RADR STORAGE FACILITY                47,000          47,000
                            Fairford
Air Force                  Royal Air Force      EDI: RADR STORAGE FACILITY                28,000          28,000
                            Lakenheath
Air Force                  Royal Air Force      SURETY DORMITORY                          50,000          50,000
                            Lakenheath
                         Utah                   ................................
Air Force                  Hill Air Force Base  F-35 T-7A EAST CAMPUS                     82,000          82,000
                                                 INFRASTRUCTURE
                         Worldwide Unspecified  ................................
Air Force                  Unspecified          BARRACKS REPLACEMENT FUND                      0          50,000
                            Worldwide
Air Force                  Unspecified          EDI: PLANNING & DESIGN                     5,648           5,648
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Air Force                  Unspecified          PLANNING & DESIGN                        338,985         338,985
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Air Force                  Unspecified          PLANNING & DESIGN                         90,281          90,281
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Air Force                  Unspecified          UNSPECIFIED MINOR MILITARY                64,900          64,900
                            Worldwide            CONSTRUCTION
                            Locations
                         Wyoming                ................................
Air Force                  F.E. Warren Air      COST TO COMPLETE: CONSOLIDATED                 0          18,000
                            Force Base           HELO/TRF OPS/AMU AND ALERT
                                                 FACILITY
Air Force                  F.E. Warren Air      GBSD INTEGRATED COMMAND CENTER            27,000          27,000
                            Force Base           (INC 2)
Air Force                  F.E. Warren Air      GBSD INTEGRATED TRAINING CENTER           85,000          85,000
                            Force Base
Air Force                  F.E. Warren Air      GBSD MISSILE HANDLING COMPLEX             28,000          28,000
                            Force Base           (INC 2)
                         .....................  ................................
      Subtotal Military Construction, Air Force                                        2,605,314       3,071,814
                           ...................  ................................
DEFENSE-WIDE
                         Alabama                ................................
Defense-Wide               Redstone Arsenal     GROUND TEST FACILITY                     147,975          77,975
                                                 INFRASTRUCTURE
                         California             ................................
Defense-Wide               Marine Corps Air     AMBULATORY CARE CENTER--DENTAL           103,000          20,600
                            Station Miramar      CLINIC ADD//ALT
Defense-Wide               Marine Corps Air     ELECTRICAL INFRASTRUCTURE, ON-                 0          30,550
                            Station Miramar      SITE GENERATION, AND MICROGRID
                                                 IMPROVEMENTS
Defense-Wide               Monterey             COST TO COMPLETE: COGEN PLANT AT               0           5,460
                                                 B236
Defense-Wide               Naval Base Coronado  COST TO COMPLETE: ATC OPERATIONS               0          11,400
                                                 SUPPORT FACILITY
Defense-Wide               Naval Base Coronado  SOF NAVAL SPECIAL WARFARE                      0          51,000
                                                 COMMAND OPERATIONS SUPPORT
                                                 FACILITY, PHASE 2
Defense-Wide               Naval Base San       AMBULATORY CARE CENTER--DENTAL           101,644          22,185
                            Diego                CLINIC REPLMT
Defense-Wide               Naval Base San       MICROGRID AND BACKUP POWER                     0           6,300
                            Diego
Defense-Wide               Naval Base Ventura   COST TO COMPLETE: GROUND MOUNTED               0          16,840
                            County               SOLAR PV
Defense-Wide               Vandenberg Space     MICROGRID WITH BACKUP POWER                    0          57,000
                            Force Base
                         Colorado               ................................
Defense-Wide               Buckley Space Force  REDUNDANT ELECTRICAL SUPPLY                    0           9,000
                            Base
Defense-Wide               Buckley Space Force  REPLACEMENT WATER WELL                         0           5,700
                            Base
                         Cuba                   ................................
Defense-Wide               Guantanamo Bay       AMBULATORY CARE CENTER (INC 1)            60,000          60,000
                            Naval Station
                         Delaware               ................................
Defense-Wide               Dover Air Force      ARMED SERVICES WHOLE BLOOD                     0          30,500
                            Base                 PROCESSING LABORATORY
                         Djibouti               ................................
Defense-Wide               Camp Lemonnier       COST TO COMPLETE: ENHANCE ENERGY               0           5,200
                                                 SECURITY AND CONTROL SYSTEMS
                         Georgia                ................................
Defense-Wide               Naval Submarine      ELECTRICAL TRANSMISSION AND                    0          49,500
                            Base Kings Bay       DISTRIBUTION IMPROVEMENTS,
                                                 PHASE 2
                         Germany                ................................
Defense-Wide               Baumholder           HUMAN PERFORMANCE TRAINING                     0          16,700
                                                 CENTER
Defense-Wide               Baumholder           SOF COMPANY OPERATIONS FACILITY           41,000          41,000
Defense-Wide               Baumholder           SOF JOINT PARACHUTE RIGGING               23,000          23,000
                                                 FACILITY
Defense-Wide               Kaiserslautern Air   KAISERSLAUTERN MIDDLE SCHOOL              21,275          21,275
                            Base
Defense-Wide               Ramstein Air Base    RAMSTEIN MIDDLE SCHOOL                   181,764         181,764
Defense-Wide               Rhine Ordnance       MEDICAL CENTER REPLACEMENT (INC           77,210          77,210
                            Barracks             11)
Defense-Wide               Stuttgart            ROBINSON BARRACKS ELEM SCHOOL              8,000           8,000
                                                 REPLACEMENT
                         Hawaii                 ................................
Defense-Wide               Joint Base Pearl     COST TO COMPLETE: FY20 500 KW PV               0           7,476
                            Harbor-Hickam        COVERED PARKING EV CHARGING
                                                 STATION
Defense-Wide               Joint Base Pearl     COST TO COMPLETE: PRIMARY                      0          13,040
                            Harbor-Hickam        ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION
                         Honduras               ................................
Defense-Wide               Soto Cano Air Base   FUEL FACILITIES                           41,300          41,300
                         Italy                  ................................
Defense-Wide               Naples               COST TO COMPLETE: SMART GRID                   0           7,610
                         Japan                  ................................
Defense-Wide               Fleet Activities     KINNICK HIGH SCHOOL (INC)                 70,000          70,000
                            Yokosuka
Defense-Wide               Kadena Air Base      PDI SOF MAINTENANCE HANGAR                88,900          88,900
Defense-Wide               Kadena Air Base      PDI: SOF COMPOSITE MAINTENANCE            11,400          11,400
                                                 FACILITY
                         Kansas                 ................................
Defense-Wide               Forbes Field         MICROGRID AND BACKUP POWER                     0           5,850
Defense-Wide               Fort Riley           COST TO COMPLETE: POWER                        0          15,468
                                                 GENERATION AND MICROGRID
                         Korea                  ................................
Defense-Wide               K-16 Air Base        K-16 EMERGENCY BACKUP POWER                    0           5,650
                         Kuwait                 ................................
Defense-Wide               Camp Arifjan         COST TO COMPLETE: POWER                        0           8,197
                                                 GENERATION AND MICROGRID
Defense-Wide               Camp Buehring        MICROGRID AND BACKUP POWER                     0          18,850
                         Louisiana              ................................
Defense-Wide               Naval Air Station    COST TO COMPLETE: DISTRIBUTION                 0           6,453
                            Joint Reserve Base   SWITCHGEAR
                            New Orleans
                         Maryland               ................................
Defense-Wide               Bethesda Naval       MEDICAL CENTER ADDITION/                 101,816         101,816
                            Hospital             ALTERATION (INC 7)
Defense-Wide               Fort Meade           NSAW MISSION OPS AND RECORDS             105,000         105,000
                                                 CENTER (INC)
Defense-Wide               Fort Meade           NSAW RECAP BUILDING 4 (INC)              315,000         315,000
Defense-Wide               Fort Meade           NSAW RECAP BUILDING 5 (ECB 5)             65,000          65,000
                                                 (INC)
Defense-Wide               Joint Base Andrews   HYDRANT FUELING SYSTEM                    38,300          38,300
                         Missouri               ................................
Defense-Wide               Lake City Army       MICROGRID AND BACKUP POWER                     0          80,100
                            Ammunition Plant
                         Montana                ................................
Defense-Wide               Great Falls          FUEL FACILITIES                           30,000          30,000
                            International
                            Airport
                         Nebraska               ................................
Defense-Wide               Offutt Air Force     DEFENSE POW/MIA ACCOUNTABILITY                 0           5,000
                            Base                 AGENCY LABORATORY (P&D)
Defense-Wide               Offutt Air Force     MICROGRID AND BACKUP POWER                     0          41,000
                            Base
                         North Carolina         ................................
Defense-Wide               Fort Liberty (Camp   MICROGRID AND BACKUP POWER                     0          10,500
                            Mackall)
Defense-Wide               Marine Corps Base    MARINE RAIDER BATTALION                        0          70,000
                            Camp Lejeune         OPERATIONS FACILITY
                         Oklahoma               ................................
Defense-Wide               Fort Sill            MICROGRID AND BACKUP POWER                     0          76,650
                         Pennsylvania           ................................
Defense-Wide               Fort Indiantown Gap  COST TO COMPLETE: GEOTHERMAL AND               0           9,250
                                                 SOLAR PV
                         Puerto Rico            ................................
Defense-Wide               Fort Buchanan        MICROGRID AND BACKUP POWER                     0          56,000
Defense-Wide               Juana Diaz           COST TO COMPLETE: MICROGRID                    0           7,680
                                                 CONTROLS, 690 KW PV, 275KW GEN,
                                                 570 KWH BESS
Defense-Wide               Ramey                COST TO COMPLETE: MICROGRID                    0           6,360
                                                 CONTROL SYSTEM, 460 KW PV,
                                                 275KW GEN, 660 KWH BESS
                         Spain                  ................................
Defense-Wide               Naval Station Rota   BULK TANK FARM, PHASE 1                   80,000          80,000
                         Texas                  ................................
Defense-Wide               Fort Cavazos         COST TO COMPLETE: POWER                        0          18,900
                                                 GENERATION AND MICROGRID
Defense-Wide               Fort Cavazos         MICROGRID AND BACKUP POWER                     0          18,250
                         Utah                   ................................
Defense-Wide               Hill Air Force Base  OPEN STORAGE                              14,200          14,200
                         Virginia               ................................
Defense-Wide               Fort Belvoir         DIA HEADQUARTERS ANNEX                   185,000          25,000
Defense-Wide               Hampton Roads        COST TO COMPLETE: BACKUP POWER                 0           1,200
                                                 GENERATION
Defense-Wide               Joint Expeditionary  SOF SDVT2 OPERATIONS SUPPORT              61,000          61,000
                            Base Little Creek--  FACILITY
                            Fort Story
Defense-Wide               Fort Belvoir (NGA    COST TO COMPLETE: CHILLED WATER                0             550
                            Campus East)         REDUNDANCY
Defense-Wide               Pentagon             HVAC EFFICIENCY UPGRADES                       0           2,250
Defense-Wide               Pentagon             SEC OPS AND PEDESTRIAN ACCESS             30,600          30,600
                                                 FACS
                         Washington             ................................
Defense-Wide               Joint Base Lewis-    POWER GENERATION AND MICROGRID                 0          49,850
                            McChord
Defense-Wide               Joint Base Lewis-    SOF CONSOLIDATED RIGGING                  62,000          62,000
                            McChord              FACILITY
Defense-Wide               Manchester           BULK STORAGE TANKS, PHASE 2               71,000          71,000
Defense-Wide               Naval Undersea       SOF COLD WATER TRAINING AUSTERE                0          37,000
                            Warfare Center       ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
                            Keyport
                         Worldwide Unspecified  ................................
Defense-Wide               Unspecified          INDOPACOM UNSPECIFIED MINOR                    0          62,000
                            Worldwide            MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
Defense-Wide               Unspecified          ENERGY RESILIENCE AND CONSERV.           548,000               0
                            Worldwide            INVEST. PROG.
                            Locations
Defense-Wide               Unspecified          ERCIP PLANNING & DESIGN                   86,250          86,250
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Defense-Wide               Unspecified          EXERCISE RELATED MINOR                    11,107          11,107
                            Worldwide            CONSTRUCTION
                            Locations
Defense-Wide               Unspecified          PLANNING & DESIGN                         49,610          49,610
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Defense-Wide               Unspecified          PLANNING & DESIGN                         32,579          32,579
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Defense-Wide               Unspecified          PLANNING & DESIGN                         30,215          30,215
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Defense-Wide               Unspecified          PLANNING & DESIGN                         25,130          25,130
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Defense-Wide               Unspecified          PLANNING & DESIGN                         24,000          24,000
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Defense-Wide               Unspecified          PLANNING & DESIGN                          8,568           8,568
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Defense-Wide               Unspecified          PLANNING & DESIGN                          3,068           3,068
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Defense-Wide               Unspecified          PLANNING & DESIGN                          2,000           2,000
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Defense-Wide               Unspecified          PLANNING & DESIGN                          1,035           1,035
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Defense-Wide               Unspecified          PLANNING & DESIGN                            590             590
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Defense-Wide               Unspecified          UNSPECIFIED MINOR CONSTRUCTION            19,271          19,271
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Defense-Wide               Unspecified          UNSPECIFIED MINOR CONSTRUCTION             3,000           3,000
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Defense-Wide               Various Worldwide    UNSPECIFIED MINOR CONSTRUCTION             4,875           4,875
                            Locations
                         Wyoming                ................................
Defense-Wide               F.E. Warren Air      MICROGRID AND BATTERY STORAGE                  0          25,000
                            Force Base
                         .....................  ................................
      Subtotal Military Construction, Defense-Wide                                     2,984,682       3,006,107
                           ...................  ................................
ARMY NATIONAL GUARD
                         Alabama                ................................
Army National Guard        Fort McClellan       COST TO COMPLETE: ENLISTED                     0           7,000
                                                 BARRACKS, TT
Army National Guard        Huntsville           COST TO COMPLETE: NATIONAL GUARD               0           4,650
                                                 READINESS CENTER
                         Arizona                ................................
Army National Guard        Surprise Readiness   NATIONAL GUARD READINESS CENTER           15,000          15,000
                            Center
                         Arkansas               ................................
Army National Guard        Fort Chaffee         COST TO COMPLETE: NATIONAL GUARD               0             610
                                                 READINESS CENTER
                         California             ................................
Army National Guard        Bakersfield          COST TO COMPLETE: VEHICLE                      0           1,000
                                                 MAINTENANCE SHOP
Army National Guard        Camp Roberts         COST TO COMPLETE: AUTOMATED                    0           5,000
                                                 MULTIPURPOSE MACHINE GUN (MPMG)
                                                 RANGE
                         Colorado               ................................
Army National Guard        Peterson Space       COST TO COMPLETE: NATIONAL GUARD               0           3,000
                            Force Base           READINESS CENTER
                         Connecticut            ................................
Army National Guard        Putnam               COST TO COMPLETE: NATIONAL GUARD               0           6,125
                                                 READINESS CENTER
                         Florida                ................................
Army National Guard        Camp Blanding        MULTIPURPOSE MACHINE GUN RANGE                 0          11,000
                         Guam                   ................................
Army National Guard        Barrigada            COST TO COMPLETE: NATIONAL GUARD               0           6,900
                                                 READINESS CENTER
                         Idaho                  ................................
Army National Guard        Jerome               COST TO COMPLETE: NATIONAL GUARD               0           1,250
                                                 READINESS CENTER
Army National Guard        Jerome County        NATIONAL GUARD VEHICLE                    17,000          17,000
                            Regional Site        MAINTENANCE SHOP
                         Illinois               ................................
Army National Guard        Bloomington          COST TO COMPLETE: NATIONAL GUARD               0           5,250
                                                 VEHICLE MAINTENANCE SHOP
Army National Guard        North Riverside      NATIONAL GUARD VEHICLE                    24,000          24,000
                            Armory               MAINTENANCE SHOP
                         Indiana                ................................
Army National Guard        Shelbyville          COST TO COMPLETE: NATIONAL GUARD               0           5,000
                                                 READINESS CENTER ADD/ALT
                         Kansas                 ................................
Army National Guard        Topeka               COST TO COMPLETE: NATIONAL GUARD/              0           5,856
                                                 RESERVE CENTER BUILDING
                         Kentucky               ................................
Army National Guard        Burlington           VEHICLE MAINTENANCE SHOP                       0          16,400
Army National Guard        Frankfort            COST TO COMPLETE: NATIONAL GUARD/              0           2,000
                                                 RESERVE CENTER BUILDING
                         Louisiana              ................................
Army National Guard        Camp Beauregard      COLLECTIVE TRAINING                            0           2,400
                                                 UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING OPEN-BAY
                                                 (P&D)
Army National Guard        Camp Beauregard      COST TO COMPLETE: NATIONAL GUARD               0           2,000
                                                 READINESS CENTER
Army National Guard        Camp Minden          COST TO COMPLETE: COLLECTIVE                   0           3,718
                                                 TRAINING UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING,
                                                 OPEN BAY
                         Maine                  ................................
Army National Guard        Northern Maine       AUTOMATED MULTIPURPOSE MACHINE                 0           2,800
                            Range Complex        GUN RANGE (P&D)
Army National Guard        Saco                 COST TO COMPLETE: NATIONAL GUARD               0           7,420
                                                 VEHICLE MAINTENANCE SHOP
                         Massachusetts          ................................
Army National Guard        Camp Edwards         COST TO COMPLETE: AUTOMATED                    0           3,000
                                                 MULTIPURPOSE MACHINE GUN (MPMG)
                                                 RANGE
                         Mississippi            ................................
Army National Guard        Camp Shelby          CAMP SHELBY JFTC RAILHEAD                      0           2,200
                                                 EXPANSION (P&D)
Army National Guard        Camp Shelby          COST TO COMPLETE: MANEUVER AREA                0           5,425
                                                 TRAINING EQUIPMENT SITE
                                                 ADDITION
Army National Guard        Southaven            NATIONAL GUARD READINESS CENTER                0          22,000
                         Missouri               ................................
Army National Guard        Belle Fontaine       NATIONAL GUARD READINESS CENTER           28,000          28,000
                         Nebraska               ................................
Army National Guard        Bellevue             COST TO COMPLETE: NATIONAL GUARD               0           9,090
                                                 READINESS CENTER
Army National Guard        Greenlief Training   COLLECTIVE TRAINING                            0           1,200
                            Site                 UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING OPEN-BAY
                                                 (P&D)
Army National Guard        Mead Training Site   COST TO COMPLETE: COLLECTIVE                   0           1,913
                                                 TRAINING UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING,
                                                 OPEN BAY
Army National Guard        North Platte         COST TO COMPLETE: NATIONAL GUARD               0             400
                                                 VEHICLE MAINTENANCE SHOP
                         New Hampshire          ................................
Army National Guard        Concord              COST TO COMPLETE: NATIONAL GUARD               0             200
                                                 READINESS CENTER
Army National Guard        Littleton            NATIONAL GUARD VEHICLE                    23,000          23,000
                                                 MAINTENANCE SHOP ADD
                         New Jersey             ................................
Army National Guard        Joint Base McGuire-  COST TO COMPLETE: NATIONAL GUARD               0             605
                            Dix-Lakehurst        READINESS CENTER
                         New Mexico             ................................
Army National Guard        Rio Rancho Training  NATIONAL GUARD VEHICLE                    11,000          11,000
                            Site                 MAINTENANCE SHOP ADD
                         New York               ................................
Army National Guard        Lexington Avenue     NATIONAL GUARD READINESS CENTER                0          70,000
                            Armory
                         North Carolina         ................................
Army National Guard        Salisbury            ARMY AVIATION SUPPORT FACILITIES               0           2,200
                                                 (P&D)
                         North Dakota           ................................
Army National Guard        Camp Grafton         INSTITUTIONAL POST-INITIAL                     0           1,950
                                                 MILITARY TRAINING,
                                                 UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING (P&D)
Army National Guard        Dickinson            COST TO COMPLETE: NATIONAL GUARD               0           5,425
                                                 READINESS CENTER
                         Ohio                   ................................
Army National Guard        Camp Perry Joint     NATIONAL GUARD READINESS CENTER           19,200          19,200
                            Training Center
Army National Guard        Columbus             COST TO COMPLETE: NATIONAL GUARD               0           4,000
                                                 READINESS CENTER
                         Oklahoma               ................................
Army National Guard        Ardmore              COST TO COMPLETE: VEHICLE                      0             400
                                                 MAINTENANCE SHOP
                         Oregon                 ................................
Army National Guard        Washington County    NATIONAL GUARD READINESS CENTER           26,000          26,000
                            Readiness Center
                         Pennsylvania           ................................
Army National Guard        Hermitage Readiness  NATIONAL GUARD READINESS CENTER           13,600          13,600
                            Center
Army National Guard        Moon Township        COST TO COMPLETE: COMBINED                     0           3,100
                                                 SUPPORT MAINTENANCE SHOP
                         Puerto Rico            ................................
Army National Guard        Fort Allen           COST TO COMPLETE: NATIONAL GUARD               0           3,676
                                                 READINESS CENTER
                         Rhode Island           ................................
Army National Guard        Camp Fogarty         COLLECTIVE TRAINING                            0           1,990
                            Training Site        UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING OPEN-BAY
                                                 (P&D)
Army National Guard        North Kingstown      NATIONAL GUARD READINESS CENTER                0          30,000
                         South Carolina         ................................
Army National Guard        Aiken County         NATIONAL GUARD READINESS CENTER           20,000          20,000
                            Readiness Center
Army National Guard        Joint Base           COST TO COMPLETE: NATIONAL GUARD               0           4,373
                            Charleston           READINESS CENTER
Army National Guard        McCrady Training     AUTOMATED MULTIPURPOSE MACHINE             7,900           7,900
                            Center               GUN RANGE
                         South Dakota           ................................
Army National Guard        Sioux Falls          COST TO COMPLETE: NATIONAL GUARD               0           5,250
                                                 READINESS CENTER
                         Tennessee              ................................
Army National Guard        Campbell Army Air    ARMY AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL TOWERS                0           2,500
                            Field                (P&D)
Army National Guard        McMinnville          COST TO COMPLETE: NATIONAL GUARD               0             500
                                                 READINESS CENTER
                         Texas                  ................................
Army National Guard        Fort Cavazos         GENERAL INSTRUCTION BUILDING                   0           2,685
                                                 (P&D)
Army National Guard        Fort Worth           COST TO COMPLETE: AIRCRAFT                     0           6,489
                                                 MAINTENANCE HANGAR ADD/ALT
Army National Guard        Fort Worth           COST TO COMPLETE: NATIONAL GUARD               0             381
                                                 VEHICLE MAINTENANCE SHOP
                         Utah                   ................................
Army National Guard        Camp Williams        COLLECTIVE TRAINING                            0           2,875
                                                 UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING, SENIOR
                                                 NCO AND OFFICER (P&D)
                         Vermont                ................................
Army National Guard        Bennington           COST TO COMPLETE: NATIONAL GUARD               0           3,415
                                                 READINESS CENTER
                         Virgin Islands         ................................
Army National Guard        St. Croix            COST TO COMPLETE: ARMY AVIATION                0           4,200
                                                 SUPPORT FACILITY
Army National Guard        St. Croix            COST TO COMPLETE: READY BUILDING               0           1,710
                         Virginia               ................................
Army National Guard        Sandston Rc & FMS 1  AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE HANGAR               20,000          20,000
Army National Guard        Troutville           COST TO COMPLETE: COMBINED                     0           2,415
                                                 SUPPORT MAINTENANCE SHOP
                                                 ADDITION
Army National Guard        Troutville           COST TO COMPLETE: NATIONAL GUARD               0           2,135
                                                 READINESS CENTER ADDITION
                         West Virginia          ................................
Army National Guard        Parkersburg          NATIONAL GUARD READINESS CENTER                0           3,300
                                                 (P&D)
                         Wisconsin              ................................
Army National Guard        Viroqua              NATIONAL GUARD READINESS CENTER           18,200          18,200
                         Worldwide Unspecified  ................................
Army National Guard        Unspecified          PLANNING & DESIGN                         34,286          34,286
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Army National Guard        Unspecified          UNSPECIFIED MINOR CONSTRUCTION            63,000          63,000
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
                         .....................  ................................
      Subtotal Military Construction, Army National Guard                                340,186         650,567
                           ...................  ................................
ARMY RESERVE
                         Alabama                ................................
Army Reserve               Birmingham           ARMY RESERVE CENTER/AMSA/LAND             57,000          57,000
                         Arizona                ................................
Army Reserve               San Tan Valley       AREA MAINTENANCE SUPPORT                  12,000          12,000
                                                 ACTIVITY
                         California             ................................
Army Reserve               Camp Pendleton       COST TO COMPLETE: AREA                         0           3,000
                                                 MAINTENANCE SUPPORT ACTIVITY
Army Reserve               Fort Hunter Liggett  NETWORK ENTERPRISE CENTER                      0          40,000
                         Florida                ................................
Army Reserve               Perrine              COST TO COMPLETE: ARMY RESERVE                 0           3,000
                                                 CENTER
                         North Carolina         ................................
Army Reserve               Asheville            COST TO COMPLETE: ARMY RESERVE                 0          12,000
                                                 CENTER
                         Ohio                   ................................
Army Reserve               Wright-Patterson     COST TO COMPLETE: ARMY RESERVE                 0           5,000
                            Air Force Base       CENTER
                         Worldwide Unspecified  ................................
Army Reserve               Unspecified          PLANNING & DESIGN                         23,389          23,389
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Army Reserve               Unspecified          UNSPECIFIED MINOR CONSTRUCTION            14,687          14,687
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
                         .....................  ................................
      Subtotal Military Construction, Army Reserve                                       107,076         170,076
                           ...................  ................................
NAVY RESERVE & MARINE CORPS RESERVE
                         Michigan               ................................
Navy Reserve & Marine      Battle Creek         ORGANIC SUPPLY FACILITIES                 24,549          24,549
 Corps Reserve
                         Virginia               ................................
Navy Reserve & Marine      Marine Forces        G/ATOR SUPPORT FACILITIES                 12,400          12,400
 Corps Reserve              Reserve Dam Neck
                            Virginia Beach
                         Worldwide Unspecified  ................................
Navy Reserve & Marine      Unspecified          MCNR PLANNING & DESIGN                     6,495           6,495
 Corps Reserve              Worldwide
                            Locations
Navy Reserve & Marine      Unspecified          MCNR UNSPECIFIED MINOR                     7,847           7,847
 Corps Reserve              Worldwide            CONSTRUCTION
                            Locations
                         .....................  ................................
      Subtotal Military Construction, Navy Reserve & Marine Corps Reserve                 51,291          51,291
                           ...................  ................................
AIR NATIONAL GUARD
                         Alabama                ................................
Air National Guard         Montgomery Regional  F-35 ADAL SQ OPS BLDG 1303                 7,000           7,000
                            Airport
                         Alaska                 ................................
Air National Guard         Eielson Air Force    AMC STANDARD DUAL BAY HANGAR                   0           3,700
                            Base                 (P&D)
Air National Guard         Joint Base           ADAL ALERT CREW FACILITY HGR 18                0           7,000
                            Elmendorf-
                            Richardson
                         Arizona                ................................
Air National Guard         Tucson               MCCA: AIRCRAFT ARRESTING SYSTEM           11,600          11,600
                            International        (NEW RWY)
                            Airport
                         Arkansas               ................................
Air National Guard         Ebbing Air National  3-BAY HANGAR                                   0          54,000
                            Guard Base
Air National Guard         Ebbing Air National  AIRCREW FLIGHT EQUIPMENT/STEP                  0           9,300
                            Guard Base
Air National Guard         Ebbing Air National  SPECIAL ACCESS PROGRAM FACILITY                0          12,700
                            Guard Base
                         Colorado               ................................
Air National Guard         Buckley Space Force  AIRCRAFT CORROSION CONTROL                12,000          12,000
                            Base
                         Indiana                ................................
Air National Guard         Fort Wayne           FIRE STATION                               8,900           8,900
                            International
                            Airport
                         Mississippi            ................................
Air National Guard         Field Air National   COST TO COMPLETE: 172ND AIRLIFT                0           8,000
                            Guard Base           WING FIRE/CRASH RESCUE STATION
                         Missouri               ................................
Air National Guard         Rosecrans Air        139TH AIRLIFT WING ENTRY CONTROL               0           2,000
                            National Guard       POINT (P&D)
                            Base
Air National Guard         Rosecrans Air        ENTRY CONTROL POINT (P&D)                      0           2,000
                            National Guard
                            Base
                         Oregon                 ................................
Air National Guard         Portland             SPECIAL TACTICS COMPLEX, PHASE 1          22,000          22,000
                            International
                            Airport
Air National Guard         Portland             SPECIAL TACTICS COMPLEX, PHASE 2          18,500          18,500
                            International
                            Airport
Air National Guard         Portland             SPECIAL TACTICS COMPLEX, PHASE 3               0          20,000
                            International
                            Airport
Air National Guard         Portland             SPECIAL TACTICS COMPLEX, PHASE 4               0          11,000
                            International
                            Airport
                         Pennsylvania           ................................
Air National Guard         Harrisburg           ENTRY CONTROL FACILITY                         0           8,000
                            International
                            Airport
                         Wisconsin              ................................
Air National Guard         Truax Field          F-35: MM&I FAC, B701                           0           5,200
Air National Guard         Volk Air National    FIRE/CRASH RESCUE STATION (P&D)                0             670
                            Guard Base
                         Worldwide Unspecified  ................................
Air National Guard         Unspecified          PLANNING & DESIGN                         35,600          35,600
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Air National Guard         Unspecified          UNSPECIFIED MINOR CONSTRUCTION            63,122          63,122
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
                         .....................  ................................
      Subtotal Military Construction, Air National Guard                                 178,722         322,292
                           ...................  ................................
AIR FORCE RESERVE
                         Arizona                ................................
Air Force Reserve          Davis-Monthan Air    GUARDIAN ANGEL POTFF FACILITY                  0           8,500
                            Force Base
                         California             ................................
Air Force Reserve          March Air Reserve    KC-46 ADD/ALTER B1244 FUT/CARGO           17,000          17,000
                            Base                 PALLET STORAGE
Air Force Reserve          March Air Reserve    KC-46 ADD/ALTER B6000 SIMULATOR            8,500           8,500
                            Base                 FACILITY
Air Force Reserve          March Air Reserve    KC-46 TWO BAY MAINTENANCE/FUEL           201,000         201,000
                            Base                 HANGAR
                         Guam                   ................................
Air Force Reserve          Joint Region         AERIAL PORT FACILITY                      27,000          27,000
                            Marianas
                         Louisiana              ................................
Air Force Reserve          Barksdale Air Force  307 BW MEDICAL FACILITY ADDITION               0           7,000
                            Base
                         Ohio                   ................................
Air Force Reserve          Youngstown Air       BASE FIRE STATION (P&D)                        0           2,500
                            Reserve Station
                         Texas                  ................................
Air Force Reserve          Naval Air Station    LRS WAREHOUSE                             16,000          16,000
                            Joint Reserve Base
                            Fort Worth
                         Worldwide Unspecified  ................................
Air Force Reserve          Unspecified          PLANNING & DESIGN                         12,146          12,146
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Air Force Reserve          Unspecified          UNSPECIFIED MINOR MILITARY                 9,926           9,926
                            Worldwide            CONSTRUCTION
                            Locations
                         .....................  ................................
      Subtotal Military Construction, Air Force Reserve                                  291,572         309,572
                           ...................  ................................
NATO SECURITY INVESTMENT PROGRAM
                         Worldwide Unspecified  ................................
NATO                       NATO Security        NATO SECURITY INVESTMENT PROGRAM         293,434         293,434
                            Investment Program
                         .....................  ................................
      Subtotal NATO Security Investment Program                                          293,434         293,434
                           ...................  ................................
                           ...................  ................................
INDOPACIFIC COMBATANT COMMAND
                         Worldwide Unspecified  ................................
MILCON, INDOPACOM          Unspecified          INDOPACOM MILITARY CONSTRUCTION                0         150,000
                            Worldwide            PILOT PROGRAM
                            Locations
                         .....................  ................................
      Subtotal Base Realignment and Closure--Defense-Wide                                      0         150,000
                           ...................  ................................
      TOTAL INDOPACIFIC COMBATANT COMMAND                                                      0         150,000
                           ...................  ................................
      TOTAL MILITARY CONSTRUCTION                                                     14,345,019      14,345,019
                           ...................  ................................
FAMILY HOUSING
FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION, ARMY
                         Georgia                ................................
Fam Hsg Con, Army          Fort Eisenhower      FORT EISENHOWER MHPI EQUITY               50,000          50,000
                                                 INVESTMENT
                         Germany                ................................
Fam Hsg Con, Army          Baumholder           FAMILY HOUSING NEW CONSTRUCTION           78,746          78,746
                         Kwajalein              ................................
Fam Hsg Con, Army          Kwajalein Atoll      FAMILY HOUSING REPLACEMENT                98,600          98,600
                                                 CONSTRUCTION
                         Missouri               ................................
Fam Hsg Con, Army          Fort Leonard Wood    FORT LEONARD WOOD MHPI EQUITY             50,000          50,000
                                                 INVESTMENT
                         Worldwide Unspecified  ................................
Fam Hsg Con, Army          Unspecified          FAMILY HOUSING P&D                        27,549          27,549
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
                         .....................  ................................
      Subtotal Family Housing Construction, Army                                         304,895         304,895
                           ...................  ................................
FAMILY HOUSING O&M, ARMY
                         Worldwide Unspecified  ................................
Fam Hsg O&M, Army          Unspecified          FURNISHINGS                               12,121          12,121
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg O&M, Army          Unspecified          HOUSING PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT             86,019          86,019
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg O&M, Army          Unspecified          LEASING                                  112,976         112,976
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg O&M, Army          Unspecified          MAINTENANCE                               86,706          86,706
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg O&M, Army          Unspecified          MANAGEMENT                                41,121          41,121
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg O&M, Army          Unspecified          MISCELLANEOUS                                554             554
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg O&M, Army          Unspecified          SERVICES                                   7,037           7,037
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg O&M, Army          Unspecified          UTILITIES                                 38,951          38,951
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
                         .....................  ................................
      Subtotal Family Housing Operation And Maintenance, Army                            385,485         385,485
                           ...................  ................................
FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION, NAVY & MARINE CORPS
                         Guam                   ................................
Fam Hsg Con, Navy &        Joint Region         REPLACE ANDERSEN HOUSING, PHASE          121,906         121,906
 Marine Corps               Marianas             8
Fam Hsg Con, Navy &        Naval Support        REPLACE ANDERSEN HOUSING (AF),            83,126          83,126
 Marine Corps               Activity Andersen    PHASE 7
                         Worldwide Unspecified  ................................
Fam Hsg Con, Navy &        Unspecified          DESIGN, WASHINGTON DC                      4,782           4,782
 Marine Corps               Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg Con, Navy &        Unspecified          IMPROVEMENTS, WASHINGTON DC               57,740          57,740
 Marine Corps               Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg Con, Navy &        Unspecified          USMC DPRI/GUAM PLANNING & DESIGN           9,588           9,588
 Marine Corps               Worldwide
                            Locations
                         .....................  ................................
      Subtotal Family Housing Construction, Navy & Marine Corps                          277,142         277,142
FAMILY HOUSING O&M, NAVY & MARINE CORPS
                         Worldwide Unspecified  ................................
Fam Hsg O&M, Navy &        Unspecified          FURNISHINGS                               17,744          17,744
 Marine Corps               Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg O&M, Navy &        Unspecified          HOUSING PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT             65,655          65,655
 Marine Corps               Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg O&M, Navy &        Unspecified          LEASING                                   60,214          60,214
 Marine Corps               Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg O&M, Navy &        Unspecified          MAINTENANCE                              101,356         101,356
 Marine Corps               Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg O&M, Navy &        Unspecified          MANAGEMENT                                61,896          61,896
 Marine Corps               Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg O&M, Navy &        Unspecified          MISCELLANEOUS                                419             419
 Marine Corps               Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg O&M, Navy &        Unspecified          SERVICES                                  13,250          13,250
 Marine Corps               Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg O&M, Navy &        Unspecified          UTILITIES                                 43,320          43,320
 Marine Corps               Worldwide
                            Locations
                         .....................  ................................
      Subtotal Family Housing Operation & Maintenance, Navy & Marine Corps               363,854         363,854
FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION, AIR FORCE
                         Alabama                ................................
Fam Hsg Con, Air Force     Maxwell Air Force    MHPI RESTRUCTURE-AETC GROUP II            65,000          65,000
                            Base
                         Colorado               ................................
Fam Hsg Con, Air Force     U.S. Air Force       CONSTRUCTION IMPROVEMENT--                 9,282           9,282
                            Academy              CARLTON HOUSE
                         Hawaii                 ................................
Fam Hsg Con, Air Force     Joint Base Pearl     MHPI RESTRUCTURE-JOINT BASE               75,000          75,000
                            Harbor-Hickam        PEARL HARBOR-HICKAM
                         Mississippi            ................................
Fam Hsg Con, Air Force     Keesler Air Force    MHPI RESTRUCTURE-SOUTHERN GROUP           80,000          80,000
                            Base
                         Worldwide Unspecified  ................................
Fam Hsg Con, Air Force     Unspecified          PLANNING & DESIGN                          7,815           7,815
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
                         .....................  ................................
      Subtotal Family Housing Construction, Air Force                                    237,097         237,097
                           ...................  ................................
FAMILY HOUSING O&M, AIR FORCE
                         Worldwide Unspecified  ................................
Fam Hsg O&M, Air Force     Unspecified          FURNISHINGS                               12,884          23,884
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg O&M, Air Force     Unspecified          HOUSING PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT             31,803          31,803
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg O&M, Air Force     Unspecified          LEASING                                    5,143           5,143
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg O&M, Air Force     Unspecified          MAINTENANCE                              135,410         124,410
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg O&M, Air Force     Unspecified          MANAGEMENT                                68,023          68,023
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg O&M, Air Force     Unspecified          MISCELLANEOUS                              2,377           2,377
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg O&M, Air Force     Unspecified          SERVICES                                  10,692          10,692
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg O&M, Air Force     Unspecified          UTILITIES                                 48,054          48,054
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
                         .....................  ................................
      Subtotal Family Housing Operation And Maintenance, Air Force                       314,386         314,386
                           ...................  ................................
FAMILY HOUSING O&M, DEFENSE-WIDE
                         Worldwide Unspecified  ................................
Fam Hsg O&M, Defense-      Unspecified          FURNISHINGS                                  673             673
 Wide                       Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg O&M, Defense-      Unspecified          FURNISHINGS                                   89              89
 Wide                       Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg O&M, Defense-      Unspecified          LEASING                                   32,042          32,042
 Wide                       Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg O&M, Defense-      Unspecified          LEASING                                   13,658          13,658
 Wide                       Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg O&M, Defense-      Unspecified          MAINTENANCE                                   35              35
 Wide                       Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg O&M, Defense-      Unspecified          UTILITIES                                  4,273           4,273
 Wide                       Worldwide
                            Locations
Fam Hsg O&M, Defense-      Unspecified          UTILITIES                                     15              15
 Wide                       Worldwide
                            Locations
                         .....................  ................................
      Subtotal Family Housing Operation And Maintenance, Defense-Wide                     50,785          50,785
                           ...................  ................................
FAMILY HOUSING IMPROVEMENT FUND
                         Worldwide Unspecified  ................................
Family Housing             Unspecified          ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES--FHIF              6,611           6,611
 Improvement Fund           Worldwide
                            Locations
                         .....................  ................................
      Subtotal Family Housing Improvement Fund                                             6,611           6,611
                           ...................  ................................
UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING IMPROVEMENT FUND
                         Worldwide Unspecified  ................................
Unaccompanied Housing      Unspecified          ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES--UHIF                496             496
 Improvement Fund           Worldwide
                            Locations
                         .....................  ................................
      Subtotal Unaccompanied Housing Improvement Fund                                        496             496
                           ...................  ................................
      TOTAL FAMILY HOUSING                                                             1,940,751       1,940,751
DEFENSE BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE
BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE, ARMY
                         Worldwide Unspecified  ................................
BRAC, Army                 Unspecified          BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE             150,640         150,640
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
                         .....................  ................................
      Subtotal Base Realignment and Closure--Army                                        150,640         150,640
                           ...................  ................................
BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE, NAVY
                         Worldwide Unspecified  ................................
BRAC, Navy                 Unspecified          BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE             108,818         108,818
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
                         .....................  ................................
      Subtotal Base Realignment and Closure--Navy                                        108,818         108,818
                           ...................  ................................
BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE, AIR FORCE
                         Worldwide Unspecified  ................................
BRAC, Air Force            Unspecified          BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE             123,990         123,990
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
                         .....................  ................................
      Subtotal Base Realignment and Closure--Air Force                                   123,990         123,990
                           ...................  ................................
BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE, DEFENSE-WIDE
                         Worldwide Unspecified  ................................
BRAC, Defense-Wide         Unspecified          INT-4: DLA ACTIVITIES                      5,726           5,726
                            Worldwide
                            Locations
                         .....................  ................................
      Subtotal Base Realignment and Closure--Defense-Wide                                  5,726           5,726
                           ...................  ................................
      TOTAL DEFENSE BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE                                         389,174         389,174
                           ...................  ................................
      TOTAL MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, FAMILY HOUSING, AND BRAC                           16,674,944      16,674,944
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      TITLE XLVII--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

SEC. 4701. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
SEC. 4701. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS (In Thousands
                               of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               FY 2024        Senate
                  Program                      Request      Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Discretionary Summary by Appropriation
  Energy and Water Development and Related
   Agencies
  Appropriation Summary:
    Energy Programs
      Nuclear Energy......................       177,733        177,733
 
    Atomic Energy Defense Activities
      National Nuclear Security
       Administration:
        Weapons Activities................    18,832,947     19,108,947
        Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation..     2,508,959      2,483,959
        Naval Reactors....................     1,964,100      1,964,100
        Federal Salaries and Expenses.....       538,994        538,994
  Total, National Nuclear Security            23,845,000     24,096,000
   Administration.........................
 
      Defense Environmental Cleanup.......     7,073,587      7,073,587
 
      Defense Uranium Enrichment D&D......       427,000              0
 
      Other Defense Activities............     1,075,197      1,075,197
 
  Total, Atomic Energy Defense Activities.    32,420,784     32,244,784
 
  Total, Discretionary Funding............    32,598,517     32,422,517
 
 
Nuclear Energy
  Safeguards and security.................       177,733        177,733
  Total, Nuclear Energy...................       177,733        177,733
 
National Nuclear Security Administration
 
Weapons Activities
Stockpile management
Stockpile major modernization
      B61 Life extension program..........       449,850        449,850
      W88 Alteration program..............       178,823        178,823
      W80-4 Life extension program........     1,009,929      1,009,929
      W80-4 ALT Nuclear-armed sea-launched             0         75,000
       cruise missile.....................
        Program increase..................                     (75,000)
      W87-1 Modification Program..........     1,068,909      1,068,909
      W93.................................       389,656        389,656
  Subtotal, Stockpile major modernization.     3,097,167      3,172,167
Stockpile sustainment.....................     1,276,578      1,276,578
Weapons dismantlement and disposition.....        53,718         53,718
Production operations.....................       710,822        710,822
Nuclear enterprise assurance..............        66,614         66,614
  Total, Stockpile management.............     5,204,899      5,279,899
 
Production Modernization
Primary Capability Modernization
  Plutonium Modernization
    Los Alamos Plutonium Modernization
          Los Alamos Plutonium Operations.       833,100        833,100
          21-D-512 Plutonium Pit                 670,000        670,000
           Production Project, LANL.......
          15-D-302 TA-55 Reinvestments            30,000         30,000
           Project, Phase 3, LANL.........
          07-D-220-04 Transuranic Liquid               0              0
           Waste Facility, LANL...........
          04-D-125 Chemistry and                 227,122        227,122
           Metallurgy Research Replacement
           Project, LANL..................
  Subtotal, Los Alamos Plutonium               1,760,222      1,760,222
   Modernization..........................
    Savannah River Plutonium Modernization
          Savannah River Plutonium                62,764         62,764
           Operations.....................
          21-D-511 Savannah River                858,235        858,235
           Plutonium Processing Facility,
           SRS............................
  Subtotal, Savannah River Plutonium             920,999        920,999
   Modernization..........................
    Enterprise Plutonium Support..........        87,779         87,779
  Total, Plutonium Modernization..........     2,769,000      2,769,000
    High Explosives & Energetics
          High Explosives & Energetics....        93,558         93,558
          23-D-516 Energetic Materials                 0         19,000
           Characterization Facility, LANL
            Restore project...............                     (19,000)
          21-D-510 HE Synthesis,                       0        110,000
           Formulation, and Production, PX
            Restore project...............                    (110,000)
          15-D-301 HE Science &                  101,356        101,356
           Engineering Facility, PX.......
  Subtotal, High Explosives & Energetics..       194,914        323,914
  Total, Primary Capability Modernization.     2,963,914      3,092,914
Secondary Capability Modernization
  Secondary Capability Modernization......       666,914        666,914
  18-D-690 Lithium Processing Facility, Y-       210,770        210,770
   12.....................................
  06-D-141 Uranium Processing Facility, Y-       760,000        760,000
   12.....................................
  Total, Secondary Capability                  1,637,684      1,637,684
   Modernization..........................
Tritium and Domestic Uranium Enrichment
  Tritium and Domestic Uranium Enrichment.       592,992        592,992
  18-D-650 Tritium Finishing Facility, SRS             0              0
  Total, Tritium and Domestic Uranium            592,992        592,992
   Enrichment.............................
Non-Nuclear Capability Modernization
  Non-Nuclear Capability Modernization....       166,990        166,990
  22-D-513 Power Sources Capability, SNL..        37,886         37,886
  Total, Non-Nuclear Capability                  204,876        204,876
   Modernization..........................
Capability Based Investments..............       156,462        156,462
  Total, Production Modernization.........     5,555,928      5,684,928
 
Stockpile research, technology, and
 engineering
    Assessment Science
      Assessment Science..................       917,751        926,751
        Program increase for Krypton                            (9,000)
         Fluoride laser...................
      14-D-640 U1a Complex Enhancements          126,570        126,570
       Project, NNSS......................
  Total, Assessment Science...............     1,044,321      1,053,321
    Engineering and integrated assessments       440,456        440,456
    Inertial confinement fusion...........       601,650        641,650
      Program increase....................                     (40,000)
    Advanced simulation and computing.....       782,472        792,472
      Program increase....................                     (10,000)
    Weapon technology and manufacturing          327,745        327,745
     maturation...........................
    Academic programs.....................       152,271        152,271
  Total, Stockpile research, technology,       3,348,915      3,407,915
   and engineering........................
 
Infrastructure and operations
    Operating
      Operations of facilities............     1,053,000      1,053,000
      Safety and Environmental Operations.       139,114        139,114
      Maintenance and Repair of Facilities       718,000        718,000
      Recapitalization
        Infrastructure and Safety.........       650,012        650,012
  Subtotal, Recapitalization..............       650,012        650,012
  Total, Operating........................     2,560,126      2,560,126
    Mission enabling construction
      22-D-510 Analytic Gas Laboratory, PX        35,000         35,000
      22-D-511 Plutonium Production               48,500         48,500
       Building, LANL.....................
      22-D-512 TA-46 Protective Force             48,500         48,500
       Facility, LANL.....................
      22-D-517 Electrical Power Capacity          75,000         75,000
       Upgrade, LANL......................
      22-D-518 Plutonium Modernization Ops             0              0
       & Waste Mngmt Office Bldg, LANL....
      23-D-519 Special Material Facility,              0              0
       Y-12...............................
  Total, Mission enabling construction....       207,000        207,000
  Total, Infrastructure and operations....     2,767,126      2,767,126
 
Secure transportation asset
    Operations and equipment..............       239,008        239,008
    Program direction.....................       118,056        118,056
  Total, Secure transportation asset......       357,064        357,064
 
Defense nuclear security
    Operations and maintenance............       988,756        991,756
      Program increase....................                      (3,000)
    Construction:
      17-D-710 West End Protected Area            28,000         38,000
       Reduction Project, Y-12............
        Program increase..................                     (10,000)
  Subtotal, Construction..................        28,000         38,000
  Total, Defense nuclear security.........     1,016,756      1,029,756
 
Information technology and cybersecurity..       578,379        578,379
Legacy contractor pensions................        65,452         65,452
  Total, Weapons Activities...............    18,894,519     19,170,519
 
Adjustments
    Use of prior year balances............       -61,572        -61,572
  Total, Adjustments......................       -61,572        -61,572
  Total, Weapons Activities...............    18,832,947     19,108,947
 
 
Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation
  Material Management and Minimization
    Conversion (formerly HEU Reactor             116,675        116,675
     Conversion)..........................
    Nuclear material removal..............        47,100         47,100
    Material disposition..................       282,250        282,250
  Total, Material Management and                 446,025        446,025
   Minimization...........................
  Global Material Security
    International nuclear security........        84,707         84,707
    Radiological security.................       258,033        258,033
    Nuclear smuggling detection and              181,308        181,308
     deterrence...........................
  Total, Global Material Security.........       524,048        524,048
  Nonproliferation and Arms Control.......       212,358        212,358
  Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation R&D
    Proliferation detection...............       290,388        290,388
    Nonproliferation stewardship program..       107,437        107,437
    Nuclear detonation detection..........       285,603        285,603
    Forensics R&D.........................        44,759         44,759
    Nonproliferation fuels development....             0              0
  Total, Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation        728,187        728,187
   R&D....................................
  Nonproliferation Construction:
    18-D-150 Surplus Plutonium Disposition        77,211         77,211
     Project, SRS.........................
  Total, Nonproliferation Construction....        77,211         77,211
  NNSA Bioassurance Program...............        25,000              0
    Program reduction.....................                    (-25,000)
  Legacy contractor pensions..............        22,587         22,587
  Nuclear Counterterrorism and Incident
   Response Program
    Emergency Operations..................        19,123         19,123
    Counterterrorism and                         474,420        474,420
     Counterproliferation.................
  Total, Nuclear Counterterrorism and            493,543        493,543
   Incident Response Program..............
  Subtotal, Defense Nuclear                    2,528,959      2,503,959
   Nonproliferation.......................
 
  Adjustments
    Use of prior year balances............       -20,000        -20,000
  Total, Adjustments......................       -20,000        -20,000
 
  Total, Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation.     2,508,959      2,483,959
 
 
Naval Reactors
  Naval reactors development..............       838,340        838,340
  Columbia-Class reactor systems                  52,900         52,900
   development............................
  S8G Prototype refueling.................             0              0
  Naval reactors operations and                  712,036        712,036
   infrastructure.........................
  Program direction.......................        61,540         61,540
  Construction:
    22-D-533 BL Component Test Complex....             0              0
    22-D-531 KL Chemistry & Radiological          10,400         10,400
     Health Building......................
    21-D-530 KL Steam and Condensate              53,000         53,000
     Upgrade..............................
    14-D-901 Spent Fuel Handling                 199,300        199,300
     Recapitalization Project, NRF........
    24-D-530 NRF Medical Science Complex..        36,584         36,584
  Total, Construction.....................       299,284        262,700
  Total, Naval Reactors...................     1,964,100      1,964,100
 
 
Federal Salaries and Expenses
  Program direction.......................       538,994        538,994
  Use of prior year balances..............             0              0
  Total, Federal Salaries and Expenses....       538,994        538,994
 
  TOTAL, National Nuclear Security            23,845,000     24,096,000
   Administration.........................
 
Defense Environmental Cleanup
    Closure sites administration..........         3,023          3,023
  Richland
    River corridor and other cleanup             180,000        180,000
     operations...........................
    Central plateau remediation...........       684,289        684,289
    Richland community and regulatory             10,100         10,100
     support..............................
    18-D-404 Modification of Waste                     0              0
     Encapsulation and Storage Facility...
    22-D-401 L-888 Eastern Plateau Fire            7,000          7,000
     Station..............................
    22-D-402 L-897 200 Area Water                 11,200         11,200
     Treatment Facility...................
    23-D-404 181D Export Water System             27,149         27,149
     Reconfiguration and Upgrade..........
    23-D-405 181B Export Water System                462            462
     Reconfiguration and Upgrade..........
    24-D-401 Environmental Restoration             1,000          1,000
     Disposal Facility Supercell 11 Expans
     Proj.................................
  Total, Richland.........................       921,200        921,200
 
  Office of River Protection:
    Waste Treatment Immobilization Plant         466,000        466,000
     Commissioning........................
    Rad liquid tank waste stabilization          813,625        813,625
     and disposition......................
    Construction:
        23-D-403 Hanford 200 West Area            15,309         15,309
         Tank Farms Risk Management
         Project..........................
        15-D-409 Low Activity Waste               60,000         60,000
         Pretreatment System..............
        18-D-16 Waste Treatment and                    0              0
         Immobilization Plant--LBL/Direct
         feed LAW.........................
        01-D-16D High-Level Waste Facility       600,000        600,000
        01-D-16E Pretreatment Facility....        20,000         20,000
  Subtotal, Construction..................       695,309        695,309
    ORP Low-level waste offsite disposal..             0              0
  Total, Office of River Protection.......     1,974,934      1,974,934
 
  Idaho National Laboratory:
    Idaho cleanup and waste disposition...       377,623        377,623
    Idaho community and regulatory support         2,759          2,759
    Construction:
        22-D-403 Idaho Spent Nuclear Fuel         10,159         10,159
         Staging Facility.................
        22-D-404 Addl ICDF Landfill               46,500         46,500
         Disposal Cell and Evaporation
         Ponds Project....................
        22-D-402 Calcine Construction.....        10,000         10,000
  Subtotal, Construction..................        66,659         66,659
  Total, Idaho National Laboratory........       447,041        447,041
 
  NNSA sites and Nevada off-sites
    Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory         1,879          1,879
    LLNL Excess Facilities D&D............        20,195         20,195
    Separations Processing Research Unit..        15,300         15,300
    Nevada Test Site......................        61,952         61,952
    Sandia National Laboratory............         2,264          2,264
    Los Alamos National Laboratory........       273,831        273,831
    Los Alamos Excess Facilities D&D......        13,648         13,648
  Total, NNSA sites and Nevada off-sites..       389,069        389,069
 
  Oak Ridge Reservation:
    OR Nuclear Facility D&D...............       335,000        335,000
    U233 Disposition Program..............        55,000         55,000
    OR cleanup and waste disposition......        72,000         72,000
    Construction:
        14-D-403 Outfall 200 Mercury              10,000         10,000
         Treatment Facility...............
        17-D-401 On-site Waste Disposal           24,500         24,500
         Facility.........................
  Subtotal, Construction..................        34,500         34,500
    OR community & regulatory support.....         5,500          5,500
    OR technology development and                  3,000          3,000
     deployment...........................
  Total, Oak Ridge Reservation............       505,000        505,000
 
  Savannah River Site:
    Savannah River risk management               453,109        453,109
     operations...........................
    Savannah River legacy pensions........        65,898         65,898
    Savannah River community and                  12,389         12,389
     regulatory support...................
    Savannah River National Laboratory O&M        42,000         42,000
    Construction:
        20-D-401 Saltstone Disposal Unit          56,250         56,250
         #10, 11, 12......................
        19-D-701 SR Security Systems                   0              0
         Replacement......................
        18-D-401 Saltstone Disposal Unit          31,250         31,250
         #8, 9............................
        18-D-402 Emergency Operations             34,733         34,733
         Center Replacement, SR...........
  Subtotal, Construction..................       122,233        122,233
    Radioactive liquid tank waste                880,323        880,323
     stabilization........................
  Total, Savannah River Site..............     1,575,952      1,575,952
 
  Waste Isolation Pilot Plant
    Waste Isolation Pilot Plant...........       369,961        369,961
    Construction:
        15-D-411 Safety Significant               44,365         44,365
         Confinement Ventilation System,
         WIPP.............................
        15-D-412 Utility Shaft, WIPP......        50,000         50,000
  Total, Construction.....................        94,365         94,365
  Total, Waste Isolation Pilot Plant......       464,326        464,326
 
  Program direction--Defense Environmental       326,893        326,893
   Cleanup................................
  Program support--Defense Environmental         103,504        103,504
   Cleanup................................
  Safeguards and Security--Defense               332,645        332,645
   Environmental Cleanup..................
  Technology development and deployment...        30,000         30,000
  Subtotal, Defense Environmental Cleanup.     7,073,587      7,073,587
 
  TOTAL, Defense Environmental Cleanup....     7,073,587      7,073,587
 
Defense Uranium Enrichment D&D............       427,000              0
  Program reduction.......................                   (-427,000)
 
Other Defense Activities
  Environment, health, safety and security
    Environment, health, safety and              144,705        144,705
     security mission support.............
    Program direction.....................        86,558         86,558
  Total, Environment, health, safety and         231,263        231,263
   security...............................
 
  Office of Enterprise Assessments
    Enterprise assessments................        30,022         30,022
    Program direction.....................        64,132         64,132
  Total, Office of Enterprise Assessments.        94,154         94,154
 
  Specialized security activities.........       345,330        345,330
 
  Legacy Management
    Legacy Management Activities--Defense.       173,681        173,681
    Program Direction.....................        22,621         22,621
  Total, Legacy Management................       196,302        196,302
 
  Defense-Related Administrative Support..       203,649        203,649
 
  Office of Hearings and Appeals..........         4,499          4,499
  Subtotal, Other Defense Activities......     1,075,197      1,075,197
  Use of prior year balances..............             0              0
  Total, Other Defense Activities.........     1,075,197      1,075,197
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                   DIVISION E--ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS

                         TITLE LI--PROCUREMENT

                     Subtitle D--Air Force Programs

SEC. 5131. INVENTORY OF C-130 AIRCRAFT.

    (a) Minimum Inventory Requirement.--Section 146(a)(3)(B) of the 
James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 
(Public Law 117-263; 136 Stat. 2455) is amended by striking ``2023'' 
and inserting ``2024''.
    (b) Prohibition on Reduction of C-130 Aircraft Assigned to National 
Guard.--Section 146(b)(1) of the James M. Inhofe National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263; 136 Stat. 
2455) is amended by striking ``fiscal year 2023'' and inserting 
``fiscal years 2023 and 2024''.

SEC. 5132. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON CERTAIN REDUCTIONS TO B-1 BOMBER 
              AIRCRAFT SQUADRONS.

    Section 133(c)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117-81; 135 Stat. 1574) is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2023'' and inserting ``September 30, 2026''.

SEC. 5133. PROHIBITION ON DIVESTMENT OF F-15E AIRCRAFT.

    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for any 
of fiscal years 2024 through 2029 may be obligated or expended to 
divest any F-15E aircraft.

         TITLE LII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

SEC. 5201. APPLICATION OF PUBLIC-PRIVATE TALENT EXCHANGE PROGRAMS IN 
              THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO QUANTUM INFORMATION SCIENCES 
              AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH.

    In carrying out section 1599g of title 10, United States Code, the 
Secretary of Defense may establish public-private exchange programs, 
each with up to 10 program participants, focused on private sector 
entities working on quantum information sciences and technology 
research applications.

SEC. 5202. BRIEFING ON SCIENCE, MATHEMATICS, AND RESEARCH FOR 
              TRANSFORMATION (SMART) DEFENSE EDUCATION PROGRAM.

    Not later than three years after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide Congress with a briefing on 
participation and use of the program under section 4093 of title 10, 
United States Code, with a particular focus on levels of interest from 
students engaged in studying quantum fields.

SEC. 5203. IMPROVEMENTS TO DEFENSE QUANTUM INFORMATION SCIENCE AND 
              TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.

    (a) Fellowship Program Authorized.--Section 234 of the John S. 
McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public 
Law 115-232; 10 U.S.C. 4001 note) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
        subsection (f):
    ``(f) Fellowships.--
            ``(1) Program authorized.--In carrying out the program 
        required by subsection (a) and subject to the availability of 
        appropriations to carry out this subsection, the Secretary may 
        carry out a program of fellowships in quantum information 
        science and technology research and development for individuals 
        who have a graduate or post-graduate degree.
            ``(2) Equal access.--In carrying out the program under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary may establish procedures to ensure 
        that minority, geographically diverse, and economically 
        disadvantaged students have equal access to fellowship 
        opportunities under such program.''.
    (b) Multidisciplinary Partnerships With Universities.--Such section 
is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (g), as redesignated by 
        subsection (a)(1), as subsection (h); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (f), as added by 
        subsection (a)(2), the following new subsection (g):
    ``(g) Multidisciplinary Partnerships With Universities.--In 
carrying out the program under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense 
may develop partnerships with universities to enable students to engage 
in multidisciplinary courses of study.''.

SEC. 5204. IMPROVEMENTS TO NATIONAL QUANTUM INITIATIVE PROGRAM.

    (a) Involvement of Department of Defense and Intelligence Community 
in National Quantum Initiative Advisory Committee.--
            (1) Qualifications.--Subsection (b) of section 104 of the 
        National Quantum Initiative Act (15 U.S.C. 8814) is amended by 
        striking ``and Federal laboratories'' and inserting ``Federal 
        laboratories, and intelligence researchers''.
            (2) Integration.--Such section is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating subsections (e) through (g) as 
                subsection (f) through (h), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after subsection (d) the following 
                new subsection (e):
    ``(e) Integration of Department of Defense and Intelligence 
Community.--The Advisory Committee shall take such actions as may be 
necessary, including by modifying policies and procedures of the 
Advisory Committee, to ensure the full integration of the Department of 
Defense and the intelligence community (as defined in section 3 of the 
National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003)) in activities of the 
Advisory Committee.''.
    (b) Clarification of Purpose of Multidisciplinary Centers for 
Quantum Research and Education.--Section 302(c) of the National Quantum 
Initiative Act (15 U.S.C. 8842(c)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) encouraging workforce collaboration, both with 
        private industry and among Federal entities, including 
        Department of Defense components and the intelligence community 
        (as defined in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 
        (50 U.S.C. 3003)).''.
    (c) Coordination of National Quantum Information Science Research 
Centers.--Section 402(d) of the National Quantum Initiative Act (15 
U.S.C. 8852(d)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs 
        (3) and (4), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
        paragraph (2):
            ``(2) other research entities of the Federal government, 
        including research entities in the intelligence community (as 
        defined in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
        U.S.C. 3003));''.
    (d) National Quantum Coordination Office, Collaboration When 
Reporting to Congress.--Section 102 of the National Quantum Initiative 
Act (15 U.S.C. 8812) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection (c):
    ``(c) Collaboration When Reporting to Congress.--The Coordination 
Office shall ensure that when participants in the National Quantum 
Initiative Program prepare and submit reports to Congress that they do 
so in collaboration with each other and as appropriate Federal 
civilian, defense, and intelligence research entities.''.
    (e) Reporting to Additional Committees of Congress.--Paragraph (2) 
of section 2 of such Act (15 U.S.C. 8801) is amended to read as 
follows:
            ``(2) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        `appropriate committees of Congress' means--
                    ``(A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                Transportation, the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                Resources, the Committee on Armed Services, and the 
                Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
                    ``(B) the Committee on Energy and Commerce, the 
                Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, the 
                Committee on Armed Services, and the Permanent Select 
                Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
                Representatives.''.

SEC. 5205. ANNUAL REVIEW OF STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION PLAN FOR DIGITAL 
              ENGINEERING CAREER TRACKS.

    (a) Annual Review and Report Required.--Not less frequently than 
once each year until December 31, 2029, the Secretary of Defense 
shall--
            (1) conduct an internal review of the status of the 
        implementation of the plan submitted pursuant to section 230(b) 
        of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 
        (Public Law 116-92; 10 U.S.C. note prec. 501); and
            (2) submit to the congressional defense committees--
                    (A) a summary of the status described in paragraph 
                (1);
                    (B) a report on the findings of the Secretary with 
                respect to the most recent review conducted pursuant to 
                such paragraph; and
                    (C) a plan for how the Department of Defense will 
                plan for digital engineering personnel needs in the 
                coming years.
    (b) Consideration.--The review conducted pursuant to subsection 
(a)(1) shall include consideration of the rapid rate of technological 
change in data science and machine learning.

SEC. 5206. RAPID RESPONSE TO EMERGENT TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENTS OR 
              THREATS.

    (a) Authorities.--Upon approval by the Secretary of Defense of a 
determination described in subsection (b), the Secretary of a military 
department may use the rapid acquisition and funding authorities 
established pursuant to section 3601 of title 10, United States Code, 
to initiate urgent or emerging operational development activities for a 
period of up to one year, in order to--
            (1) leverage an emergent technological advancement of value 
        to the national defense to address a military service-specific 
        need; or
            (2) provide a rapid response to an emerging threat 
        identified by a military service.
    (b) Determination.--A determination described in this subsection is 
a determination by the Secretary of a military department submitted in 
writing to the Secretary of Defense that provides the following:
            (1) Identification of a compelling urgent or emergency 
        national security need to immediately initiate development 
        activity in anticipation of a programming or budgeting action, 
        in order to leverage an emergent technological advancement or 
        provide a rapid response to an emerging threat.
            (2) Justification for why the effort cannot be delayed 
        until the next submission of the budget of the President (under 
        section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code) without 
        harming the national defense.
            (3) Funding is identified for the effort in the current 
        fiscal year to initiative the activity.
            (4) An appropriate acquisition pathway and programmed 
        funding for transition to continued development, integration, 
        or sustainment is identified to on-ramp this activity within 
        two years.
    (c) Additional Procedures.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall amend 
        the procedures for the rapid acquisition and deployment of 
        capabilities needed in response to urgent operational needs 
        prescribed pursuant to such section 3601 to carry out this 
        section. Such updated procedures shall be provided to the 
        congressional defense committees concurrently with the 
        promulgation to the rest of the Department of Defense.
            (2) Requirements to be included.--The procedures amended 
        under paragraph (1) shall include the following requirements:
                    (A) Funding.--(i) Subject to clause (ii), in any 
                fiscal year in which a determination described in 
                subsection (b) is made, the Secretary of the military 
                department making the determination may initiate the 
                activities authorized under subsection (a) using any 
                funds available to the Secretary for such fiscal year 
                for--
                            (I) procurement; or
                            (II) research, development, test, and 
                        evaluation.
                    (ii) The total cost of all developmental activities 
                within the Department of Defense, funded under this 
                section, may not exceed $100,000,000 for any fiscal 
                year.
                    (B) Waiver authority.--(i) Subject to clause (ii), 
                the Secretary of the military department making a 
                determination under subsection (b) may issue a waiver 
                under subsection (d) of such section 3601.
                    (ii) Chapter 221 of title 10, United States Code, 
                may not be waived pursuant to clause (i).
                    (C) Transition.--(i) Any acquisition initiated 
                under subsection (a) shall transition to an appropriate 
                acquisition pathway for transition and integration of 
                the development activity, or be transitioned to a newly 
                established program element or procurement line for 
                completion of such activity.
                    (ii)(I) Transition shall be completed within one 
                year of initiation, but may be extended one time only 
                at the discretion of the Secretary of the military 
                department for one additional year.
                    (II) In the event an extension determination is 
                made under subclause (I), the affected Secretary of the 
                military department shall submit to the congressional 
                defense committees, not later than 30 days before the 
                extension takes effect, written notification of the 
                extension with a justification for the extension.
            (3) Submittal to congress.--Concurrent with promulgation to 
        the Department of the amendments to the procedures under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
        defense committees the procedures update by such amendments.
    (d) Congressional Notification.--Within 15 days after the Secretary 
of Defense approves a determination described in subsection (b), the 
Secretary of the military department making the determination shall 
provide written notification of such determination to the congressional 
defense committees following the procedures for notification in 
subsections (c)(4)(D) and (c)(4)(F) of such section 3601. A notice 
under this subsection shall be sufficient to fulfill any requirement to 
provide notification to Congress for a new start program.

                 TITLE LIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                   Subtitle A--Briefings and Reports

SEC. 5341. REPORT BY DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ON ALTERNATIVES TO BURN 
              PITS.

    Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall 
submit to Congress a report on incinerators and waste-to-energy waste 
disposal alternatives to burn pits.

          TITLE LVI--COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS

                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

SEC. 5631. MODIFICATIONS TO TRANSITIONAL COMPENSATION FOR DEPENDENTS OF 
              MEMBERS SEPARATED FOR DEPENDENT ABUSE.

    (a) Covered Punitive Actions.--Subsection (b) of section 1059 of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking ``; or'' and inserting 
        a semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) who is--
                    ``(A) convicted of a dependent-abuse offense in a 
                district court of the United States or a State court; 
                and
                    ``(B) separated from active duty pursuant to a 
                sentence of a court-martial, or administratively 
                separated, voluntarily or involuntarily, from active 
                duty, for an offense other than the dependent-abuse 
                offense.''.
    (b) Commencement of Payment.--Subsection (e)(1) of such section is 
amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by 
                inserting after ``offense'' the following: ``or an 
                offense described in subsection (b)(3)(B)''; and
                    (B) in clause (ii), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a semicolon; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``(if the basis'' and 
        all that follows through ``offense)''.
    (c) Definition of Dependent Child.--Subsection (l) of such section 
is amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1)--
            (1) by striking ``resulting in the separation of the former 
        member or'' and inserting ``referred to in subsection (b) or''; 
        and
            (2) by striking ``resulting in the separation of the former 
        member and'' and inserting ``and''.
    (d) Delegation of Determinations Relating to Exceptional 
Eligibility.--Subsection (m)(4) of such section is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(4) The Secretary concerned may delegate the authority under 
paragraph (1) to authorize eligibility for benefits under this section 
for dependents and former dependents of a member or former member to 
the first general or flag officer (or civilian equivalent) in the chain 
of command of the member.''.

SEC. 5632. REPORT ON EFFECT OF PHASE-OUT OF REDUCTION OF SURVIVOR 
              BENEFIT PLAN SURVIVOR ANNUITIES BY AMOUNT OF DEPENDENCY 
              AND INDEMNITY COMPENSATION.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress 
a report on the effect of section 622 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) and the 
amendments made by such section.
    (b) Contents.--The report submitted pursuant to subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
            (1) An assessment on the effect that section 622 of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public 
        Law 116-92) and the amendments made by such section had on 
        beneficiaries and any unintended consequences that were a 
        result of such section or amendments.
            (2) An evaluation of the authority that the Secretary has 
        in a situation when the Defense Finance Accounting Service 
        cannot verify the eligibility of a spouse and payments are 
        paused for the child.
            (3) Recommendations for legislative action to ensure the 
        Secretary has the flexibility to make payments under subchapter 
        II of chapter 73 of title 10, United States Code, to dependent 
        children that are under the guardianship of someone other than 
        the surviving spouse.
            (4) An assessment of the process of the Department for 
        determining eligibility for survivor benefits under subchapter 
        II of chapter 73 of title 10, United States Code, and 
        dependency and indemnity compensation under chapter 13 of title 
        38, United States Code, and the coordination between the 
        Defense Finance Accounting Service and the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs for such benefits.

                   TITLE LVII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

           Subtitle A--TRICARE and Other Health Care Benefits

SEC. 5701. EXPANSION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR HEARING AIDS TO INCLUDE 
              CHILDREN OF CERTAIN RETIRED MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED 
              SERVICES.

    Paragraph (16) of section 1077(a) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended to read as follows:
            ``(16) Except as provided by subsection (g), a hearing aid, 
        but only if the dependent has a profound hearing loss, as 
        determined under standards prescribed in regulations by the 
        Secretary of Defense in consultation with the administering 
        Secretaries, and only for the following dependents:
                    ``(A) A dependent of a member of the uniformed 
                services on active duty.
                    ``(B) A dependent under subparagraph (D) or (I) of 
                section 1072(2) of this title of a former member of the 
                uniformed services who--
                            ``(i) is entitled to retired or retainer 
                        pay, or equivalent pay; and
                            ``(ii) is enrolled in family coverage under 
                        TRICARE Prime.''.

                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

SEC. 5711. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENT TO TRANSFER RESEARCH AND 
              DEVELOPMENT AND PUBLIC HEALTH FUNCTIONS TO DEFENSE HEALTH 
              AGENCY.

    Section 720(a) of the James M. Inhofe National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263; 10 U.S.C. 
1073c note) is amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
striking ``February 1, 2024'' and inserting ``February 1, 2025''.

                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

SEC. 5721. REPORT ON MILITARY MENTAL HEALTH CARE REFERRAL POLICIES.

    (a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report--
            (1) detailing the mental health care referral policies of 
        the Armed Forces; and
            (2) the impact of removing primary care referral 
        requirements for outpatient mental health care on--
                    (A) military readiness;
                    (B) the uptake of outpatient mental health care 
                services by members of the Armed Forces; and
                    (C) suicide prevention.
    (b) Recommendations.--The report required by subsection (a) shall 
include recommendations and legislative proposals--
            (1) to improve resources and access for outpatient mental 
        health care services by members of the Armed Forces;
            (2) to encourage the uptake of such services by such 
        members; and
            (3) to maintain military readiness.

SEC. 5722. COMPTROLLER GENERAL STUDY ON BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH AND 
              DEVELOPMENT FUNDED BY DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Study.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
conduct a study on the management by the Department of Defense of 
biomedical research and development funded by the Department, including 
a review of--
            (1) patents for drugs approved by the Food and Drug 
        Administration that were supported with intramural or 
        extramural funding from the Department;
            (2) requirements of the Department for how grant 
        recipients, contractors, and labs of the Department should 
        disclose support by the Department in patents generated with 
        funding from the Department; and
            (3) the data systems of the Department for cataloging 
        information about patents generated with funding from the 
        Department.
    (b) Briefing.--Not later than March 31, 2024, the Comptroller 
General shall brief the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
the House of Representatives on the study conducted under subsection 
(a).
    (c) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on the study conducted under subsection (a).

SEC. 5723. REPORT ON PROVISION OF MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES VIA TELEHEALTH 
              TO MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND THEIR DEPENDENTS.

    Not later than March 31, 2024, the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House 
of Representatives a report on the provision by the Department of 
Defense of mental health services via telehealth that includes the 
following:
            (1) A summary of relevant Federal and State laws and 
        policies of the Department governing the provision of mental 
        health services via telehealth to members of the Armed Forces 
        and their dependents.
            (2) An explanation of any challenges experienced by members 
        of the Armed Forces and their dependents in receiving 
        continuing care from a provider when assigned to a new State or 
        location outside the United States.
            (3) An assessment of the value of receiving continuing care 
        from the same mental health provider for various mental health 
        conditions.
            (4) A description of how the Department accommodates 
        members of the Armed Forces who would benefit from receiving 
        continuing care from a specific mental health provider.
            (5) Such other matters as the Secretary considers relevant.

SEC. 5724. EXPANSION OF DOULA CARE FURNISHED BY DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    The text of section 706 is hereby deemed to read as follows:

``SEC. 706 EXPANSION OF DOULA CARE FURNISHED BY DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    ``(a) Expansion of Extramedical Maternal Health Providers 
Demonstration Project.--Section 746 of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 
116-283; 10 U.S.C. 1073 note) is amended--
            ``(1) by redesignating subsections (e) through (h) as 
        subsections (f) through (i), respectively; and
            ``(2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
        subsection (e):
    ```(e) Coverage of Doula Care.--The Secretary may add coverage of 
labor doula care to the demonstration project, or reimbursement for 
such care, for all beneficiaries under the TRICARE program, including 
access--
            ```(1) by members of the Armed Forces on active duty;
            ```(2) by beneficiaries outside the continental United 
        States; and
            ```(3) at military medical treatment facilities.'.
    ``(b) Hiring of Doulas.--The hiring authority for each military 
medical treatment facility may hire a team of doulas to work in 
coordination with lactation support personnel or labor and delivery 
units at such facility.''.

 TITLE LVIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

                   Subtitle D--Small Business Matters

SEC. 5841. COMPETITION OF SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS FOR DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE CONTRACTS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall issue guidance 
ensuring that covered small businesses are better able to compete for 
Department of Defense contracts.
    (b) Exemptions From Capability Requirements.--
            (1) Waiver authority.--The guidance issued under subsection 
        (a) shall provide that the Department of Defense may waive 
        capability requirements, including the waiver described in 
        paragraph (2), to allow a covered small business that does not 
        otherwise meet such requirements to bid on a contract, provided 
        that it makes the certification described under paragraph (3).
            (2) Special consideration to provide interim access to 
        classified information for department of defense contractors 
        without security clearances.--Notwithstanding section 801 of 
        the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3161) and the 
        procedures established pursuant to such section, the Secretary 
        of Defense may issue a waiver providing a covered small 
        business that has not been determined eligible to access 
        classified information pursuant to such procedures interim 
        access to classified information under such terms and 
        conditions as the Secretary considers appropriate.
            (3) Certification requirement.-- In order to qualify for a 
        waiver under paragraph (1), a covered small business shall 
        certify that it will be able to meet the exempted capability 
        requirements within 180 days after the contract award date. The 
        certification shall include a detailed project and financial 
        plan outlining the tasks to be completed, milestones to be 
        achieved, and resources required.
            (4) Monitoring and compliance.--
                    (A) In general.--The contracting officer for a 
                contract awarded pursuant to a waiver under paragraph 
                (1) shall closely monitor the contract performance of 
                the covered small business to ensure that sufficient 
                progress is being made and that any issues that arise 
                are promptly addressed.
                    (B) Failure to meet capability requirements.--If a 
                covered small business awarded a contract pursuant to a 
                waiver under paragraph (1) fails to meet the 
                requirements promised in the certification required 
                under paragraph (3) within 180 days, the covered small 
                business shall be subject to disqualification from 
                consideration for future contracts of similar scope 
                pursuant to ``Termination for Default'' provisions 
                under subpart 49.4 of the Federal Acquisition 
                Regulation.
    (c) Covered Small Business Defined.--In this section, the term 
``covered small business'' means--
            (1) a nontraditional defense contractor, as that term is 
        defined in section 3014 of title 10, United States Code;
            (2) a small business concern, as that term is defined in 
        section 3(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632(a)); and
            (3) any other contractor that has not been awarded a 
        Department of Defense contract in the five-year period 
        preceding the solicitation of sources by the Department of 
        Defense.

                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

SEC. 5851. BRIEFING ON THE REDESIGNATION OF NATIONAL SERIAL NUMBER 
              (NSN) PARTS AS PROPRIETARY.

    Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Defense shall provide a briefing to the congressional 
defense committees identifying which National Serial Number (NSN) parts 
in the Defense Logistics Agency system have had their designation 
changed to proprietary over the previous 5 years, including a 
description of which parts were, or continue to be, produced by small 
businesses before the proprietary designation was applied, and the 
justification for the changes in designation.

                        TITLE LX--OTHER MATTERS

                      Subtitle D--Counterterrorism

SEC. 6031. ESTABLISHING A COORDINATOR FOR COUNTERING MEXICO'S CRIMINAL 
              CARTELS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the President, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Homeland 
Security, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of the Treasury, 
shall designate an existing official within the executive branch to 
serve as senior-level coordinator to coordinate, in conjunction with 
other relevant agencies, all defense, diplomatic, intelligence, 
financial, and legal efforts to counter the drug- and human-trafficking 
activities of Mexico's criminal cartels.
    (b) Retention of Authority.--The designation of a coordinator under 
subsection (a) shall not deprive any agency of any authority to 
independently perform functions of that agency.
    (c) Quarterly Reports.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and every 90 days thereafter through 
        January 31, 2029, the coordinator designated under subsection 
        (a) shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
        detailed report on the following:
                    (A) Efforts taken during the previous quarter to 
                bolster defense cooperation with the Government of 
                Mexico against Mexico's criminal cartels, and any other 
                activities of the Department of Defense with respect to 
                countering the cartels, including in cooperation with 
                the Government of Mexico or interagency partners.
                    (B) Diplomatic efforts, including numbers of 
                demarches and meetings, taken during the previous 
                quarter to highlight and counter the human rights 
                abuses of Mexico's criminal cartels, including human 
                trafficking, sex trafficking, other exploitation of 
                migrants, endangerment of children, and other abuses.
                    (C) Diplomatic efforts taken during the previous 
                quarter to improve cooperation with the Government of 
                Mexico in countering Mexico's criminal cartels, and a 
                detailed list and assessment of any actions that the 
                Government of Mexico has taken during the previous 
                quarter to counter the cartels.
                    (D) Diplomatic efforts taken during the previous 
                quarter to improve cooperation with partners and allies 
                in countering Mexico's criminal cartels.
                    (E) Efforts taken during the previous quarter to 
                bolster the screening process at ports of entry to 
                prevent members and associates of Mexico's criminal 
                cartels, and individuals who are working for the 
                cartels, from entering or trafficking drugs, humans, 
                and contraband into the United States.
                    (F) Efforts taken during the previous quarter to 
                encourage the Government of Mexico to improve its 
                screening process along its own ports of entry in order 
                to prevent illicit cash, weapons, and contraband that 
                is destined for Mexico's criminal cartels from entering 
                Mexico.
                    (G) Efforts taken during the previous quarter to 
                investigate and prosecute members and associates of 
                Mexico's criminal cartels, including members and 
                associates operating from within the United States.
                    (H) Efforts taken during the previous quarter to 
                encourage the Government of Mexico to increase its 
                investigation and prosecution of leaders, members, and 
                associates of Mexcio's criminal cartels within Mexico.
                    (I) Efforts taken during the previous quarter to 
                initiate or improve the sharing of intelligence with 
                allies and partners, including the Government of 
                Mexico, for the purpose of countering Mexico's criminal 
                cartels.
                    (J) Efforts taken during the previous quarter to 
                impose sanctions with respect to--
                            (i) leaders, members, and associates of 
                        Mexico's criminal cartels; and
                            (ii) any companies, banks, or other 
                        institutions that facilitate the cartels' 
                        human-trafficking, drug-trafficking, and other 
                        criminal enterprises.
                    (K) The total number of personnel and resources in 
                the Department of Defense, the Department of State, the 
                Department of Homeland Security, the Department of 
                Justice, and the Department of the Treasury focused on 
                countering Mexico's criminal cartels.
            (2) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Foreign Relations, the Committee on the Judiciary, 
                the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
                Affairs, and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
                Urban Affairs of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on the Judiciary, the 
                Committee on Homeland Security, and the Committee on 
                Financial Services of the House of Representatives.
            (2) Mexico's criminal cartels.--The term ``Mexico's 
        criminal cartels'' means the following:
                    (A) Criminal organizations the operations of which 
                include human-trafficking, drug-trafficking, and other 
                types of smuggling operations across the southwest 
                border of the United States and take place largely 
                within Mexico, including the following:
                            (i) The Sinaloa Cartel.
                            (ii) The Jalisco New Generation Cartel.
                            (iii) The Gulf Cartel.
                            (iv) The Los Zetas Cartel.
                            (v) The Northeast Cartel.
                            (vi) The Juarez Cartel.
                            (vii) The Tijuana Cartel.
                            (viii) The Beltran-Leyva Cartel.
                            (ix) The La Familia Michoacana, also known 
                        as the Knights Templar Cartel.
                            (x) Las Moicas.
                            (xi) La Empresa Nueva.
                            (xii) MS-13.
                            (xiii) The Medellin Cartel.
                    (B) Any successor organization to an organization 
                described in subparagraph (A).

                    Subtitle F--Studies and Reports

SEC. 6051. REPORT ON FOOD PURCHASING BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives and make 
publicly available on the website of the Department of Defense a report 
on the following for each of fiscal years 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, and 
2022:
            (1) The total dollar amount spent by the Department of 
        Defense on food service operations worldwide for all personnel, 
        contractors, and families, including all food service provided 
        at or through--
                    (A) all facilities, such as combat operations, 
                military posts, medical facilities;
                    (B) all vessels (air, land, and sea);
                    (C) all entertainment and hosting operations such 
                as officers' clubs and other such facilities; and
                    (D) all food programs provided to other Federal 
                agencies, such as the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program 
                of the Department of Agriculture and the Department of 
                Defense.
            (2) The total dollar amount spent by the Department for 
        each category described in paragraph (1).
            (3) The dollar amount spend by the Department for each of--
                    (A) the 25 largest food service contractors or 
                operators; and
                    (B) the top 10 categories of food, such as meat and 
                poultry, seafood, eggs, dairy product, produce (fruits, 
                vegetables, and nuts), grains and legumes, and 
                processed and packaged foods.
            (4) The percentage of all food purchased by the Department 
        that was a product of the United States, pursuant to section 
        4862 of title 10, United States Code.
            (5) The dollar amount of third-party certified and verified 
        foods (such as USDA Organic, Equitable Food Initiative, Fair 
        Trade Certified, and other categories determined to be 
        appropriate by the Secretary) purchased by the Department.
            (6) The dollar amount of contracts for food service, food, 
        or food products entered into by the Department with woman-, 
        minority-, and veteran-owned businesses.

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

SEC. 6071. IMPROVEMENTS TO DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS-DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE JOINT EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Ensuring 
Interagency Cooperation to Support Veterans Act of 2023''.
    (b) In General.--Section 320 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``; 
                        and'' and inserting a semicolon;
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking the 
                        period at the end and inserting a semicolon; 
                        and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following 
                        new subparagraphs:
            ``(C) the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans' 
        Employment and Training and such other officers and employees 
        of the Department of Labor as the Secretary of Labor may 
        designate; and
            ``(D) such officers and employees of other Executive 
        agencies as the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary 
        of Defense jointly determine, with the consent of the heads of 
        the Executive agencies of such officers and employees, 
        necessary to carry out the goals and objectives of the 
        Committee.'';
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
    ``(3) The co-chairs of the Committee are the Deputy Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs and the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and 
Readiness.'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``Job Training and 
        Post-Service Placement Executive Committee'' and inserting 
        ``Transition Executive Committee'';
            (3) in subsection (d), by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraph:
            ``(6) Develop, implement, and oversee such other joint 
        actions, initiatives, programs, and policies as the two 
        Secretaries determine appropriate and consistent with the 
        purpose of the Committee.''; and
            (4) in subsection (e)--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Job 
                Training and Post-Service Placement'' and inserting 
                ``Transition'';
                    (B) in the matter before paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``Job Training and Post-
                        Service Placement'' and inserting 
                        ``Transition'';
                            (ii) by inserting ``, in addition to such 
                        other activities as may assigned to the 
                        committee under subsection (d)(6)'' after 
                        ``shall''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``, transition 
                from life in the Armed Forces to civilian life,'' after 
                ``job training''.

SEC. 6072. GRAVE MARKERS AT SANTA FE NATIONAL CEMETERY, NEW MEXICO.

    (a) In General.--Section 612 of the Veterans Millennium Health Care 
and Benefits Act (38 U.S.C. 2404 note; Public Law 106-117) is repealed.
    (b) Study Required.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
conduct a study on the cost to replace the flat grave markers that were 
provided under such section at the Santa Fe National Cemetery, New 
Mexico, with upright grave markers.

SEC. 6073. MODIFICATION OF COMPENSATION FOR MEMBERS OF THE AFGHANISTAN 
              WAR COMMISSION.

    Section 1094(g)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117-81; 135 Stat. 1942) is amended to read 
as follows:
            ``(1) Compensation of members.--
                    ``(A) Non-federal employees.--A member of the 
                Commission who is not an officer or employee of the 
                Federal Government shall be compensated at a rate equal 
                to the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay 
                prescribed for level IV of the Executive Schedule under 
                section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, for each 
                day (including travel time) during which the member is 
                engaged in the performance of the duties of the 
                Commission.
                    ``(B) Federal employees.--
                            ``(i) In general.--A member of the 
                        Commission who is an employee of the Federal 
                        Government may be compensated as provided for 
                        under subparagraph (a) for periods of time 
                        during which the member is engaged in the 
                        performance of the duties of the Commission 
                        that fall outside of ordinary agency working 
                        hours, as determined by the employing agency of 
                        such member.
                            ``(ii) Rule of construction.--Nothing in 
                        this paragraph shall be construed to authorize 
                        dual pay for work performed on behalf of the 
                        Commission and for a Federal agency during the 
                        same hours of the same day.''.

SEC. 6074. RED HILL HEALTH IMPACTS.

    (a) Registry for Impacted Individuals of the Red Hill Incident.--
            (1) Establishment of registry.--The Secretary of Health and 
        Human Services (referred to in this subsection as the 
        ``Secretary'') shall establish within the Agency for Toxic 
        Substances and Disease Registry or the Centers for Disease 
        Control and Prevention or through an award of a grant or 
        contract, as the Secretary determines appropriate, a Red Hill 
        Incident exposure registry to collect data on health 
        implications of petroleum contaminated water for impacted 
        individuals on a voluntary basis. Such registry shall be 
        complementary to, and not duplicative of, the Red Hill Incident 
        Report of the Defense Occupational and Environmental Health 
        Readiness System.
            (2) Other responsibilities.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary, in coordination 
                with the Director of the Centers for Disease Control 
                and Prevention, and in consultation with the Secretary 
                of Defense, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and such 
                State and local authorities or other partners as the 
                Secretary of Health and Human Services considers 
                appropriate, shall--
                            (i) review the Federal programs and 
                        services available to individuals exposed to 
                        petroleum;
                            (ii) review current research on petroleum 
                        exposure in order to identify additional 
                        research needs; and
                            (iii) undertake any other review or 
                        activities that the Secretary determines to be 
                        appropriate.
                    (B) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date 
                of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for 6 
                additional years, the Secretary shall submit to the 
                appropriate congressional committees a report on the 
                review and activities undertaken under subparagraph (A) 
                that includes--
                            (i) strategies for communicating and 
                        engaging with stakeholders on the Red Hill 
                        Incident;
                            (ii) the number of impacted and potentially 
                        impacted individuals enrolled in the registry 
                        established under paragraph (1);
                            (iii) measures and frequency of follow-up 
                        to collect data and specimens related to 
                        exposure, health, and developmental milestones 
                        as appropriate; and
                            (iv) a summary of data and analyses on 
                        exposure, health, and developmental milestones 
                        for impacted individuals.
                    (C) Consultation.--In carrying out subparagraphs 
                (A) and (B), the Secretary shall consult with non-
                Federal experts, including individuals with 
                certification in epidemiology, toxicology, mental 
                health, pediatrics, and environmental health, and 
                members of the impacted community.
            (3) Funding.--Without regard to section 2215 of title 10, 
        United States Code, the Secretary of the Defense is authorized 
        to provide, from amounts made available to such Secretary, such 
        sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2024 through 
        2030 for the Secretary of Health and Human Services to carry 
        out this subsection.
    (b) Red Hill Epidemiological Health Outcomes Study.--
            (1) Contracts.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services 
        may contract with independent research institutes or 
        consultants, nonprofit or public entities, laboratories, or 
        medical schools, as the Secretary considers appropriate, that 
        are not part of the Federal Government to assist with the 
        feasibility assessment required by paragraph (2).
            (2) Feasibility assessment.--Not later than one year after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health 
        and Human Services shall submit to the appropriate 
        congressional committees the results of a feasibility 
        assessment to inform the design of the epidemiological study or 
        studies to assess health outcomes for impacted individuals, 
        which may include--
                    (A) a strategy to recruit impacted individuals to 
                participate in the study or studies, including 
                incentives for participation;
                    (B) a description of protocols and methodologies to 
                assess health outcomes from the Red Hill Incident, 
                including data management protocols to secure the 
                privacy and security of the personal information of 
                impacted individuals; and
                    (C) the periodicity for data collection that takes 
                into account the differences between health care 
                practices among impacted individuals who are--
                            (i) members of the Armed Forces on active 
                        duty or spouses or dependents of such members;
                            (ii) members of the Armed Forces separating 
                        from active duty or spouses or dependents of 
                        such members;
                            (iii) veterans and other individuals with 
                        access to health care from the Department of 
                        Veterans Affairs; and
                            (iv) individuals without access to health 
                        care from the Department of Defense or the 
                        Department of Veterans Affairs;
                    (D) a description of methodologies to analyze data 
                received from the study or studies to determine 
                possible connections between exposure to water 
                contaminated during the Red Hill Incident and adverse 
                impacts to the health of impacted individuals;
                    (E) an identification of exposures resulting from 
                the Red Hill Incident that may qualify individuals to 
                be eligible for participation in the study or studies 
                as a result of those exposures; and
                    (F) steps that will be taken to provide individuals 
                impacted by the Red Hill Incident with information on 
                available resources and services.
            (3) Notifications; briefings.--Not later than one year 
        after the completion of the feasibility assessment under 
        paragraph (2), the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
        shall--
                    (A) notify impacted individuals on the interim 
                findings of the study or studies; and
                    (B) brief the appropriate congressional committees 
                on the interim findings of the study or studies.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
                Pensions of the Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on 
                Appropriations of the Senate;
                    (C) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
                Senate;
                    (D) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the 
                House of Representatives;
                    (E) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on 
                Appropriations of the House of Representatives; and
                    (F) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House 
                of Representatives.
            (2) Impacted individual.--The term ``impacted individual'' 
        means an individual who, at the time of the Red Hill Incident, 
        lived or worked in a building or residence served by the 
        community water system at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam, Oahu, 
        Hawaii.
            (3) Red hill incident.--The term ``Red Hill Incident'' 
        means the release of fuel from the Red Hill Bulk Fuel Storage 
        Facility, Oahu, Hawaii, into the sole-source basal aquifer 
        located 100 feet below the facility, contaminating the 
        community water system at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam on 
        November 20, 2021.

SEC. 6075. PERMANENT AUTHORIZATION OF UNDETECTABLE FIREARMS ACT OF 
              1988.

    Section 2(f) of the Undetectable Firearms Act of 1988 (18 U.S.C. 
922 note; Public Law 100-649) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Effective Date and Sunset Provision'' and 
        all that follows through ``This Act and the amendments'' and 
        inserting the following: ``Effective Date.--This Act and the 
        amendments''; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (2).

SEC. 6076. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE IMPORTANCE OF NON-GOVERNMENTAL 
              RECOGNITION OF MILITARY ENLISTEES TO IMPROVE COMMUNITY 
              SUPPORT FOR MILITARY RECRUITMENT.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) publicly honoring and recognizing the young men and 
        women who upon graduation from high-school enlist to serve in 
        the Armed Forces is a meaningful way to indicate national and 
        local support for those enlistees prior to initial accession 
        training, express gratitude to their families, and enhance the 
        partnerships between military recruiters and high school 
        administrators and guidance counselors;
            (2) the intrinsic value of these community ceremonies 
        should be formally recognized by the Office of the Secretary of 
        Defense and the various military service recruiting commands; 
        and
            (3) to the extent practicable, an appropriate level of 
        joint military service support should be provided at these 
        events, to include general officer and senior enlisted adviser 
        participation, ceremonial unit involvement, musical support, 
        and local recruiter presence.
    (b) Briefing.--Not later than March 23, 2024, the Secretary of 
Defense shall brief the congressional defense committees on the extent 
of Department of Defense and military service coordination and support 
rendered for the recognition events described in subsection (a), which 
are executed at no cost to the Federal Government under the 
independent, national direction of the ``Our Community Salutes'' 
organization, a registered 501(c)(3) organization.

SEC. 6077. ADJUSTMENT OF THRESHOLD AMOUNT FOR MINOR MEDICAL FACILITY 
              PROJECTS OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Department of 
Veterans Affairs Minor Construction Threshold Adjustment Act of 2023''.
    (b) Adjustment of Threshold Amount.--Section 8104(a) of title 38, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3)(A), by striking ``$20,000,000'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``the amount specified in 
        paragraph (4)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(4)(A) The amount specified in this paragraph is $30,000,000, as 
adjusted pursuant to this paragraph.
    ``(B)(i) The Secretary shall develop, through regulations, a 
mechanism to adjust the amount under subparagraph (A) to account for 
relevant factors relating to construction, cost of land, real estate, 
economic conditions, labor conditions, inflation, and other relevant 
factors the Secretary considers necessary to ensure such amount keeps 
pace with all economic conditions that impact the price of construction 
projects, to include planning, management, and delivery of the project.
    ``(ii) In developing the mechanism under clause (i), the Secretary 
may--
            ``(I) use a mechanism or index already relied upon by the 
        Department for other relevant programs, a mechanism or index 
        used by another Federal agency, or a commercial mechanism or 
        index if such mechanism or index satisfactorily addresses the 
        intent of this subparagraph; or
            ``(II) create a new mechanism or index if the Secretary 
        considers it appropriate and necessary to do so.
    ``(C)(i) Not less frequently than once every two years, the 
Secretary shall--
            ``(I) adjust the amount under subparagraph (A); or
            ``(II) publish a notice in the Federal Register indicating 
        that no adjustment is warranted.
    ``(ii) Not later than 30 days before adjusting an amount pursuant 
to clause (i)(I) or publishing a notice pursuant to clause (i)(II), the 
Secretary shall notify the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the 
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives.
    ``(D) The Secretary shall determine a logical schedule for 
adjustments under this paragraph to take effect so that the amounts for 
and types of construction projects requested by the Department in the 
budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31 are 
consistent with the threshold for construction projects as so 
adjusted.''.

SEC. 6078. DESIGNATION OF NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE MIGHTY EIGHTH AIR 
              FORCE.

    (a) Designation.--The National Museum of the Mighty Eighth Air 
Force located at 175 Bourne Avenue, Pooler, Georgia (or any successor 
location), is designated as the official National Museum of the Mighty 
Eighth Air Force of the United States (referred to in this section as 
the ``National Museum'').
    (b) Relation to National Park System.--The National Museum shall 
not be included as a unit of the National Park System.
    (c) Rule of Construction.--This section shall not be construed to 
appropriate, or authorize the appropriation of, Federal funds for any 
purpose related to the National Museum.

SEC. 6079. REVISION OF REQUIREMENT FOR TRANSFER OF CERTAIN AIRCRAFT TO 
              STATE OF CALIFORNIA FOR WILDFIRE SUPPRESSION PURPOSES.

    (a) Transfer of Excess Coast Guard HC-130H Aircraft.--
            (1) Transfer to state of california.--If the Governor of 
        the State of California submits to the Secretary of Homeland 
        Security a written request to acquire, pursuant to this 
        section, the Federal property described in this paragraph, the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security shall transfer to the State of 
        California without reimbursement--
                    (A) all right, title, and interest of the United 
                States in and to the seven HC-130H aircraft specified 
                in paragraph (2); and
                    (B) initial spares (calculated based on shelf stock 
                support for seven HC-130H aircraft each flying 400 
                hours each year) and necessary ground support equipment 
                for such aircraft.
            (2) Aircraft specified.--The aircraft specified in this 
        paragraph are the HC-130H Coast Guard aircraft with serial 
        numbers 1706, 1708, 1709, 1713, 1714, 1719, and 1721.
            (3) Timing; failure to submit request.--
                    (A) In general.--The transfers under paragraph (1) 
                shall be made as soon as practicable after the date on 
                which the Secretary of Homeland Security receives a 
                request under such paragraph.
                    (B) Failure to submit request.--If the Governor of 
                the State of California fails to submit a request under 
                paragraph (1) before the date that is 120 days after 
                the date of the enactment of this Act--
                            (i) paragraph (1) shall have no force or 
                        effect; and
                            (ii) the Secretary of Homeland Security may 
                        retain title and disposition of the Federal 
                        property described in paragraph (1).
            (4) Modifications.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), the transfers under paragraph (1) may be carried 
                out without further modifications by the United States 
                to the aircraft transferred under such paragraph.
                    (B) Demilitarized.--Before an aircraft may be 
                transferred under paragraph (1), the aircraft shall be 
                demilitarized as determined necessary by the Secretary 
                of Homeland Security.
    (b) Conditions of Transfer.--Aircraft transferred to the State of 
California under subsection (a)(1)--
            (1) may be used only for wildfire suppression purposes;
            (2) may not be flown outside of, or otherwise removed from, 
        the United States unless dispatched by the National Interagency 
        Fire Center in support of an international agreement to assist 
        in wildfire suppression efforts or for other disaster-related 
        response purposes approved by the Governor of the State of 
        California in writing in advance;
            (3) may be used for wildfire suppression purposes only 
        after the aircraft is modified to conform with the standards 
        and requirements for firefighting aircraft set forth by the 
        National Interagency Aviation Committee and the Interagency 
        Airtanker Board; and
            (4) may only be disposed of by the State of California 
        pursuant to the statutes and regulations governing disposal of 
        aircraft provided to the State of California through the 
        Federal Excess Personal Property Program.
    (c) Transfer of Residual Kits and Parts Held by Air Force.--The 
Secretary of the Air Force may transfer to the State of California, 
without reimbursement, any residual kits and parts held by the 
Secretary of the Air Force that were procured in anticipation of the 
transfer to the Secretary of the Air Force of the aircraft specified in 
subsection (a)(2).
    (d) Costs After Transfer.--Any costs of operation, maintenance, 
sustainment, and disposal of aircraft, initial spares, and ground 
support equipment transferred to the Governor of the State of 
California under this section that are incurred after the date of 
transfer shall be borne by the Governor of the State of California.
    (e) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 1098 of fiscal year 2014 ndaa.--Section 1098 of 
        the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 
        (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 881), as amended by section 1083 
        of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1989), is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking subsection (a);
                    (B) in subsection (b)(1), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by striking ``and subject to the 
                certification requirement under subsection (f),'';
                    (C) in subsection (c), by striking ``or the 
                Governor of California'' each place it appears;
                    (D) in subsection (e), in the matter preceding 
                paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``Promptly following the 
                        completion of the certification requirement 
                        under subsection (f) and notwithstanding'' and 
                        inserting ``Notwithstanding''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``begin''; and
                    (E) by striking subsection (f).
            (2) Section 1083 of fiscal year 2019 ndaa.--Section 1083 of 
        the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1989) is 
        repealed.

SEC. 6080. EXTENSION OF ACTIVE DUTY TERM FOR ATTENDING PHYSICIAN AT 
              UNITED STATES CAPITOL.

    The present incumbent Attending Physician at the United States 
Capitol shall be continued on active duty until 10 years after the date 
of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 6081. DISCLOSURES BY DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, AND PRINCIPAL 
              STOCKHOLDERS.

    (a) In General.--Section 16(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (15 U.S.C. 78p(a)(1)) is amended by inserting ``(including any 
such security of a foreign private issuer, as that term is defined in 
section 240.3b-4 of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations, or any 
successor regulation)'' after ``pursuant to section 12''.
    (b) Effect on Regulation.--If any provision of section 240.3a12-
3(b) of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor 
regulation, is inconsistent with the amendment made by subsection (a), 
that provision of such section 240.3a12-3(b) (or such successor) shall 
have no force or effect.
    (c) Issuance or Amendment of Regulations.--Not later than 90 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Securities and Exchange 
Commission shall issue final regulations (or amend existing regulations 
of the Commission) to carry out the amendment made by subsection (a).

SEC. 6082. PREVENTING CHILD SEX ABUSE.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Preventing 
Child Sex Abuse Act of 2023''.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--The sense of Congress is the following:
            (1) The safety of children should be a top priority for 
        public officials and communities in the United States.
            (2) According to the Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network, 
        an individual in the United States is sexually assaulted every 
        68 seconds. And every 9 minutes, that victim is a child. 
        Meanwhile, only 25 out of every 1,000 perpetrators will end up 
        in prison.
            (3) The effects of child sexual abuse can be long-lasting 
        and affect the victim's mental health.
            (4) Victims are more likely than non-victims to experience 
        the following mental health challenges:
                    (A) Victims are about 4 times more likely to 
                develop symptoms of drug abuse.
                    (B) Victims are about 4 times more likely to 
                experience post-traumatic stress disorder as adults.
                    (C) Victims are about 3 times more likely to 
                experience a major depressive episode as adults.
            (5) The criminal justice system should and has acted as an 
        important line of defense to protect children and hold 
        perpetrators accountable.
            (6) However, the horrific crimes perpetuated by Larry 
        Nassar demonstrate firsthand the loopholes that still exist in 
        the criminal justice system. While Larry Nassar was found 
        guilty of several State-level offenses, he was not charged 
        federally for his illicit sexual contact with minors, despite 
        crossing State and international borders to commit this 
        conduct.
            (7) The Department of Justice has also identified a growing 
        trend of Americans who use charitable or missionary work in a 
        foreign country as a cover for sexual abuse of children.
            (8) It is the intent of Congress to prohibit Americans from 
        engaging in sexual abuse or exploitation of minors under the 
        guise of work, including volunteer work, with an organization 
        that affects interstate or foreign commerce, such as an 
        international charity.
            (9) Federal law does not require that an abuser's intention 
        to engage in sexual abuse be a primary, significant, dominant, 
        or motivating purpose of the travel.
            (10) Child sexual abuse does not require physical contact 
        between the abuser and the child. This is especially true as 
        perpetrators turn increasingly to internet platforms, online 
        chat rooms, and webcams to commit child sexual abuse.
            (11) However, a decision of the United States Court of 
        Appeals for the Seventh Circuit found the use of a webcam to 
        engage in sexually provocative activity with a minor did not 
        qualify as ``sexual activity''.
            (12) Congress can address this issue by amending the 
        definition of the term ``sexual activity'' to clarify that it 
        does not require interpersonal, physical contact.
            (13) It is the duty of Congress to provide clearer guidance 
        to ensure that those who commit crimes against children are 
        prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.
    (c) Interstate Child Sexual Abuse.--Section 2423 of title 18, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``with a motivating 
        purpose of engaging in any illicit sexual conduct with another 
        person'' and inserting ``with intent to engage in any illicit 
        sexual conduct with another person'';
            (2) by redesignating subsections (d), (e), (f), and (g) as 
        subsections (e), (f), (g), and (i), respectively;
            (3) in subsection (e), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``with a motivating purpose of engaging in any illicit sexual 
        conduct'' and inserting ``with intent to engage in any illicit 
        sexual conduct''; and
            (4) by inserting after subsection (g), as so redesignated, 
        the following:
    ``(h) Rule of Construction.--As used in this section, the term 
`intent' shall be construed as any intention to engage in illicit 
sexual conduct at the time of the travel.''.
    (d) Abuse Under the Guise of Charity.--Section 2423 of title 18, 
United States Code, as amended by subsection (c) of this section, is 
amended--
            (1) by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
    ``(d) Illicit Sexual Conduct in Connection With Certain 
Organizations.--Any citizen of the United States or alien admitted for 
permanent residence who--
            ``(1) is an officer, director, employee, or agent of an 
        organization that affects interstate or foreign commerce;
            ``(2) makes use of the mails or any means or 
        instrumentality of interstate or foreign commerce through the 
        connection or affiliation of the person with such organization; 
        and
            ``(3) commits an act in furtherance of illicit sexual 
        conduct through the connection or affiliation of the person 
        with such organization,
shall be fined under this title, imprisoned for not more than 30 years, 
or both.'';
            (2) in subsection (f), as so redesignated, by striking ``or 
        (d)'' and inserting ``(d), or (e)''; and
            (3) in subsection (i), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``(f)(2)'' and inserting ``(g)(2)''.
    (e) Sexual Activity With Minors.--Section 2427 of title 18, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting ``does not require interpersonal 
physical contact, and'' before ``includes''.

SEC. 6083. SENATE NATIONAL SECURITY WORKING GROUP.

    (a) In General.--Section 21 of Senate Resolution 64 (113th 
Congress), agreed to March 5, 2013, is amended by striking subsection 
(d).
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect as though enacted on December 31, 2022.

SEC. 6084. RECOGNITION AS CORPORATION AND GRANT OF FEDERAL CHARTER FOR 
              NATIONAL AMERICAN INDIAN VETERANS, INCORPORATED.

    (a) In General.--Part B of subtitle II of title 36, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting after chapter 1503 the following:

    ``CHAPTER 1504--NATIONAL AMERICAN INDIAN VETERANS, INCORPORATED

``Sec.
``150401. Organization.
``150402. Purposes.
``150403. Membership.
``150404. Board of directors.
``150405. Officers.
``150406. Nondiscrimination.
``150407. Powers.
``150408. Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges.
``150409. Restrictions.
``150410. Duty to maintain tax-exempt status.
``150411. Records and inspection.
``150412. Service of process.
``150413. Liability for acts of officers and agents.
``150414. Failure to comply with requirements.
``150415. Annual report.
``Sec. 150401 Organization
    ``The National American Indian Veterans, Incorporated, a nonprofit 
corporation organized in the United States (referred to in this chapter 
as the `corporation'), is a federally chartered corporation.
``Sec. 150402. Purposes
    ``The purposes of the corporation are those stated in the articles 
of incorporation, constitution, and bylaws of the corporation, and 
include a commitment--
            ``(1) to uphold and defend the Constitution of the United 
        States while respecting the sovereignty of the American Indian 
        Nations;
            ``(2) to unite under one body all American Indian veterans 
        who served in the Armed Forces of United States;
            ``(3) to be an advocate on behalf of all American Indian 
        veterans without regard to whether they served during times of 
        peace, conflict, or war;
            ``(4) to promote social welfare (including educational, 
        economic, social, physical, and cultural values and traditional 
        healing) in the United States by encouraging the growth and 
        development, readjustment, self-respect, self-confidence, 
        contributions, and self-identity of American Indian veterans;
            ``(5) to serve as an advocate for the needs of American 
        Indian veterans and their families and survivors in their 
        dealings with all Federal and State government agencies;
            ``(6) to promote, support, and utilize research, on a 
        nonpartisan basis, pertaining to the relationship between 
        American Indian veterans and American society; and
            ``(7) to provide technical assistance to the Bureau of 
        Indian Affairs regional areas that are not served by any 
        veterans committee or organization or program by--
                    ``(A) providing outreach service to Indian Tribes 
                in need; and
                    ``(B) training and educating Tribal Veterans 
                Service Officers for Indian Tribes in need.
``Sec. 150403. Membership
    ``Subject to section 150406, eligibility for membership in the 
corporation, and the rights and privileges of members, shall be as 
provided in the constitution and bylaws of the corporation.
``Sec. 150404. Board of directors
    ``Subject to section 150406, the board of directors of the 
corporation, and the responsibilities of the board, shall be as 
provided in the constitution and bylaws of the corporation and in 
conformity with the laws under which the corporation is incorporated.
``Sec. 150405. Officers
    ``Subject to section 150406, the officers of the corporation, and 
the election of such officers, shall be as provided in the constitution 
and bylaws of the corporation and in conformity with the laws of the 
jurisdiction under which the corporation is incorporated.
``Sec. 150406. Nondiscrimination
    ``In establishing the conditions of membership in the corporation, 
and in determining the requirements for serving on the board of 
directors or as an officer of the corporation, the corporation may not 
discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national 
origin, handicap, or age.
``Sec. 150407. Powers
    ``The corporation shall have only those powers granted the 
corporation through its articles of incorporation, constitution, and 
bylaws, which shall conform to the laws of the jurisdiction under which 
the corporation is incorporated.
``Sec. 150408. Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges
    ``(a) In General.--The corporation shall have the sole and 
exclusive right to use the names `National American Indian Veterans, 
Incorporated' and `National American Indian Veterans', and such seals, 
emblems, and badges as the corporation may lawfully adopt.
    ``(b) Effect.--Nothing in this section interferes or conflicts with 
any established or vested rights.
``Sec. 150409. Restrictions
    ``(a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not--
            ``(1) issue any shares of stock; or
            ``(2) declare or pay any dividends.
    ``(b) Distribution of Income or Assets.--
            ``(1) In general.--The income or assets of the corporation 
        may not--
                    ``(A) inure to any person who is a member, officer, 
                or director of the corporation; or
                    ``(B) be distributed to any such person during the 
                life of the charter granted by this chapter.
            ``(2) Effect.--Nothing in this subsection prevents the 
        payment of reasonable compensation to the officers of the 
        corporation, or reimbursement for actual and necessary 
        expenses, in amounts approved by the board of directors.
    ``(c) Loans.--The corporation may not make any loan to any officer, 
director, member, or employee of the corporation.
    ``(d) No Federal Endorsement.--The corporation may not claim 
congressional approval or Federal Government authority by virtue of the 
charter granted by this chapter for any of the activities of the 
corporation.
``Sec. 150410. Duty to maintain tax-exempt status
    ``The corporation shall maintain its status as an organization 
exempt from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
``Sec. 150411. Records and inspection
    ``(a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            ``(1) correct and complete books and records of accounts;
            ``(2) minutes of any proceeding of the corporation 
        involving any of member of the corporation, the board of 
        directors, or any committee having authority under the board of 
        directors; and
            ``(3) at the principal office of the corporation, a record 
        of the names and addresses of all members of the corporation 
        having the right to vote.
    ``(b) Inspection.--
            ``(1) In general.--All books and records of the corporation 
        may be inspected by any member having the right to vote, or by 
        any agent or attorney of such a member, for any proper purpose, 
        at any reasonable time.
            ``(2) Effect.--Nothing in this section contravenes--
                    ``(A) the laws of the jurisdiction under which the 
                corporation is incorporated; or
                    ``(B) the laws of those jurisdictions within the 
                United States and its territories within which the 
                corporation carries out activities in furtherance of 
                the purposes of the corporation.
``Sec. 150412. Service of process
    ``With respect to service of process, the corporation shall comply 
with the laws of--
            ``(1) the jurisdiction under which the corporation is 
        incorporated; and
            ``(2) those jurisdictions within the United States and its 
        territories within which the corporation carries out activities 
        in furtherance of the purposes of the corporation.
``Sec. 150413. Liability for acts of officers and agents
    ``The corporation shall be liable for the acts of the officers and 
agents of the corporation acting within the scope of their authority.
``Sec. 150414. Failure to comply with requirements
    ``If the corporation fails to comply with any of the requirements 
of this chapter, including the requirement under section 150410 to 
maintain its status as an organization exempt from taxation, the 
charter granted by this chapter shall expire.
``Sec. 150415. Annual report
    ``(a) In General.--The corporation shall submit to Congress an 
annual report describing the activities of the corporation during the 
preceding fiscal year.
    ``(b) Submittal Date.--Each annual report under this section shall 
be submitted at the same time as the report of the audit of the 
corporation required by section 10101(b).
    ``(c) Report Not Public Document.--No annual report under this 
section shall be printed as a public document.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of chapters for subtitle II of 
title 36, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to chapter 1503 the following:


``1504. National American Indian Veterans, Incorporated.....   150401''.
 

Subtitle H--Granting Recognition to Accomplished Talented Employees for 
                         Unwavering Loyalty Act

SEC. 6091. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Granting Recognition to 
Accomplished Talented Employees for Unwavering Loyalty Act'' or 
``GRATEFUL Act''.

SEC. 6092. FINDINGS; SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) In 1952, with the enactment of the Immigration and 
        Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.), Congress established 
        an immigrant visa program to reward foreign nationals who are 
        United States Government employees for their service to the 
        United States (referred to in this Act as the ``Government 
        Employee Immigrant Visa program'').
            (2) For 71 years, the Government Employee Immigrant Visa 
        program has allowed foreign nationals with at least 15 years of 
        exceptional service to the United States to immigrate to the 
        United States with their families.
            (3) Such foreign national employees of the United States 
        Government are the bulwark of United States foreign policy, 
        risking their lives year after year through civil unrest, 
        terrorism, natural disasters, and war.
            (4) The work of such foreign nationals--
                    (A) ensures the safety and well-being of United 
                States citizens;
                    (B) provides security and logistics for visiting 
                delegations; and
                    (C) supports United States Government operations 
                abroad.
            (5) Such foreign nationals include employees of the 
        Department of State, the United States Agency for International 
        Development, the Department of Defense, the Department of 
        Homeland Security, the Department of Justice, the Department of 
        Commerce, and the Department of Agriculture.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the United 
States should preserve the immigrant visa program for foreign nationals 
who are employees of the United States Government abroad or of the 
American Institute in Taiwan, and who have provided exceptional service 
over a long term to the United States, by providing a dedicated 
allocation of visas for such employees and their immediate family 
members when visas are not immediately available in the corresponding 
visa category.

SEC. 6093. VISA AVAILABILITY FOR GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE IMMIGRANT VISA 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Beginning in fiscal year 2024, subject to 
subsection (b), visas shall be made available to a special immigrant 
described in section 101(a)(27)(D) of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(27)(D)) if a visa is not immediately available 
for issuance to the special immigrant under section 203(b)(4) of that 
Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(b)(4)).
    (b) Numerical Limitations.--
            (1) Fiscal year 2024.--For fiscal year 2024, not more than 
        3,500 visas shall be made available under subsection (a).
            (2) Subsequent fiscal years.--For fiscal year 2025 and each 
        fiscal year thereafter, not more than 3,000 visas shall be made 
        available under subsection (a).
    (c) Temporary Reduction in Diversity Visas.--Section 203(d)(2) of 
the Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central America Relief Act (8 U.S.C. 1151 
note; Public Law 105-100) is amended--
            (1) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
    ``(2) In no case shall the reduction under paragraph (1) for a 
fiscal year exceed the amount by which--
            ``(A) the sum of--
                    ``(i) one-half of the total number of individuals 
                described in subclauses (I), (II), (III), and (IV) of 
                section 309(c)(5)(C)(i) of the Illegal Immigration 
                Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (8 
                U.S.C. 1101 note; Public Law 104-208) who have adjusted 
                their status to that of aliens lawfully admitted for 
                permanent residence under section 202 of the Nicaraguan 
                Adjustment and Central American Relief Act (Public Law 
                105-100; 8 U.S.C. 1255 note) as of the end of the 
                previous fiscal year; and
                    ``(ii) the total number of individuals described in 
                section 101(a)(27)(D) of the Immigration and 
                Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(27)(D)) for whom 
                visas shall be made available for the applicable fiscal 
                year under section 1093(b) of the Granting Recognition 
                to Accomplished Talented Employees for Unwavering 
                Loyalty Act; exceeds
            ``(B) the total of the reductions in available visas under 
        this subsection for all previous fiscal years.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(3)(A) Paragraph (1) shall not apply in a fiscal year following a 
fiscal year for which the total number of aliens described in 
subparagraph (B) is zero.
    ``(B) For a fiscal year, the total number of aliens described in 
this subparagraph is the total number of individuals described in 
section 101(a)(27)(D) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1101(a)(27)(D)) who have been issued visas during the previous fiscal 
year under the Granting Recognition to Accomplished Talented Employees 
for Unwavering Loyalty Act.
    ``(C) Nothing in this paragraph may be construed--
            ``(i) to repeal, modify, or render permanently inapplicable 
        paragraph (1); or
            ``(ii) to prevent the offsetting of the number of visas 
        described in that paragraph for the purpose of providing visa 
        availability for aliens described in subparagraph (B).
    ``(4) In the event that the number of visas available for a fiscal 
year under section 201(e) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
U.S.C. 1151(e)) is reduced to a number fewer than 50,000, not fewer 
than 3,000 visas shall be made available for individuals described in 
section 1093(a) of the Granting Recognition to Accomplished Talented 
Employees for Unwavering Loyalty Act.''.
    (d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section or the 
amendments made by this section may be construed to modify the number 
of visas available under section 203(b)(4) of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(b)(4)) to special immigrants described 
in section 101(a)(27)(D) of that Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(27)(D)).

   Subtitle I--Additional Matters Relating to Artificial Intelligence

SEC. 6096. REPORT ON ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE REGULATION IN FINANCIAL 
              SERVICES INDUSTRY.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, each of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the National Credit Union Administration, 
and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection shall submit to the 
Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the 
Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives a 
report on its gap in knowledge relating to artificial intelligence, 
including an analysis on--
            (1) which tasks are most frequently being assisted or 
        completed with artificial intelligence in the institutions the 
        agency regulates;
            (2) current governance standards in place for artificial 
        intelligence use at the agency and current standards in place 
        for artificial intelligence oversight by the agency;
            (3) potentially additional regulatory authorities required 
        by the agency to continue to successfully execute its mission;
            (4) where artificial intelligence may lead to overlapping 
        regulatory issues between agencies that require clarification;
            (5) how the agency is currently using artificial 
        intelligence, how the agency plans to use such artificial 
        intelligence the next 3 years, and the expected impact, 
        including fiscal and staffing, of those plans; and
            (6) what resources, monetary or other resources, if any, 
        the agency requires to both adapt to the changes that 
        artificial intelligence will bring to the regulatory landscape 
        and to adequately adopt and oversee the use of artificial 
        intelligence across its operations described in paragraph (5).
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
to require an agency to include confidential supervisory information or 
pre-decisional or deliberative non-public information in a report under 
this section.

SEC. 6097. ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE BUG BOUNTY PROGRAMS.

    (a) Program for Foundational Artificial Intelligence Products Being 
Incorporated by Department of Defense.--
            (1) Development required.--Not later than 180 days after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act and subject to the 
        availability of appropriations, the Chief Data and Artificial 
        Intelligence Officer of the Department of Defense shall develop 
        a bug bounty program for foundational artificial intelligence 
        models being integrated into Department of Defense missions and 
        operations.
            (2) Collaboration.--In developing the program required by 
        paragraph (1), the Chief may collaborate with the heads of 
        other government agencies that have expertise in cybersecurity 
        and artificial intelligence.
            (3) Implementation authorized.--The Chief may carry out the 
        program developed pursuant to subsection (a).
            (4) Contracts.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure, as 
        may be appropriate, that whenever the Department of Defense 
        enters into any contract, the contract allows for participation 
        in the bug bounty program developed pursuant to paragraph (1).
            (5) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this subsection shall 
        be construed to require--
                    (A) the use of any foundational artificial 
                intelligence model; or
                    (B) the implementation of the program developed 
                pursuant to paragraph (1) in order for the Department 
                to incorporate a foundational artificial intelligence 
                model.
    (b) Briefing.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Chief shall provide the congressional 
defense committees a briefing on--
            (1) the development and implementation of bug bounty 
        programs the Chief considers relevant to the matters covered by 
        this section; and
            (2) long-term plans of the Chief with respect to such bug 
        bounty programs.
    (c) Definition of Foundational Artificial Intelligence Model.--In 
this section, the term ``foundational artificial intelligence model'' 
means an adaptive generative model that is trained on a broad set of 
unlabeled data sets that can be used for different tasks, with minimal 
fine-tuning.

SEC. 6098. VULNERABILITY ANALYSIS STUDY FOR ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE-
              ENABLED MILITARY APPLICATIONS.

    (a) Study Required.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Chief Digital and Artificial Intelligence 
Officer (CDAO) of the Department of Defense shall complete a study 
analyzing the vulnerabilities to the privacy, security, and accuracy 
of, and capacity to assess, artificial intelligence-enabled military 
applications, as well as research and development needs for such 
applications.
    (b) Elements.--The study required by subsection (a) shall cover the 
following:
            (1) Research and development needs and transition pathways 
        to advance explainable and interpretable artificial 
        intelligence-enabled military applications, including the 
        capability to assess the underlying algorithms and data models 
        of such applications.
            (2) Assessing the potential risks to the privacy, security, 
        and accuracy of underlying architectures and algorithms of 
        artificial intelligence-enabled military applications, 
        including the following:
                    (A) Individual foundational artificial intelligence 
                models, including the adequacy of existing testing, 
                training, and auditing for such models to ensure models 
                can be properly assessed over time.
                    (B) The interactions of multiple artificial 
                intelligence-enabled military applications, and the 
                ability to detect and assess new, complex, and emergent 
                behavior amongst individual agents, as well as the 
                collective impact, including how such changes may 
                affect risk to privacy, security, and accuracy over 
                time.
                    (C) The impact of increased agency in artificial 
                intelligence-enabled military applications and how such 
                increased agency may affect the ability to detect and 
                assess new, complex, and emergent behavior, as well 
                risks to the privacy, security, and accuracy of such 
                applications over time.
            (3) Assessing the survivability and traceability of 
        decision support systems that are integrated with artificial 
        intelligence-enabled military applications and used in a 
        contested environment, including--
                    (A) potential benefits and risks to Department of 
                Defense missions and operations of implementing such 
                applications; and
                    (B) other technical or operational constraints to 
                ensure such decision support systems that are 
                integrated with artificial intelligence-enabled 
                military applications are able to adhere to the 
                Department of Defense Ethical Principles for Artificial 
                Intelligence.
            (4) Identification of existing artificial intelligence 
        metrics, developmental, testing and audit capabilities, 
        personnel, and infrastructure within the Department of Defense, 
        including test and evaluation facilities, needed to enable 
        ongoing identification and assessment under paragraphs (1) 
        through (3), and other factors such as--
                    (A) implications for deterrence systems based on 
                systems warfare; and
                    (B) vulnerability to systems confrontation on the 
                system and system-of-systems level.
            (5) Identification of gaps or research needs to 
        sufficiently respond to the elements outlined in this 
        subsection that are not currently, or not sufficiently, funded 
        within the Department of Defense.
    (c) Coordination.--In carrying out the study required by subsection 
(a), the Chief Digital and Artificial Intelligence Officer shall 
coordinate with the following:
            (1) The Director of the Defense Advanced Research Projects 
        Agency (DARPA).
            (2) The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
        Evaluation.
            (3) The Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.
            (4) The Director for Operational Test and Evaluation 
        (DOT&E) of the Department.
            (5) As the Chief Digital and Artificial Intelligence 
        Officer considers appropriate, the following:
                    (A) The Secretary of Energy.
                    (B) The Director of the National Institute of 
                Standards and Technology.
                    (C) The Director of the National Science 
                Foundation.
                    (D) The head of the National Artificial 
                Intelligence Initiative Office of the Office of Science 
                and Technology Policy.
                    (E) Members and representatives of industry.
                    (F) Members and representatives of academia.
    (d) Interim Briefing.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Chief Digital and Artificial 
Intelligence Officer shall provide the congressional defense committees 
a briefing on the interim findings of the Chief Digital and Artificial 
Intelligence Officer with respect to the study being conducted pursuant 
to subsection (a).
    (e) Final Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Chief Digital and Artificial 
        Intelligence Officer shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a final report on the findings of the Chief Digital 
        and Artificial Intelligence Officer with respect to the study 
        conducted pursuant to subsection (a).
            (2) Form.--The final report submitted pursuant to paragraph 
        (1) shall be submitted in unclassified for, but may include a 
        classified annex.
    (f) Definition of Foundational Artificial Intelligence Model.--In 
this section, the term ``foundational artificial intelligence model'' 
means an adaptive generative model that is trained on a broad set of 
unlabeled data sets that can be used for different tasks, with minimal 
fine-tuning.

SEC. 6099. REPORT ON DATA SHARING AND COORDINATION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on ways to improve data 
sharing, interoperability, and quality, as may be appropriate, across 
the Department of Defense.
    (b) Contents.--The report submitted pursuant to subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
            (1) A description of policies, practices, and cultural 
        barriers that impede data sharing and interoperability, and 
        lead to data quality issues, among components of the 
        Department.
            (2) The impact a lack of appropriate levels of data 
        sharing, interoperability, and quality has on Departmental 
        collaboration, efficiency, interoperability, and joint-
        decisionmaking.
            (3) A review of current efforts to promote appropriate data 
        sharing, including to centralize data management, such as the 
        ADVANA program.
            (4) A description of near-, mid-, and long-term efforts 
        that the Office of the Secretary of Defense plans to implement 
        to promote data sharing and interoperability, including efforts 
        to improve data quality.
            (5) A detailed plan to implement a data sharing and 
        interoperability strategy that supports effective development 
        and employment of artificial intelligence-enabled military 
        applications.
            (6) A detailed assessment of the implementation of the 
        Department of Defense Data Strategy issued in 2020, as well as 
        the use of data decrees to improve management rigor in the 
        Department when it comes to data sharing and interoperability.
            (7) Any recommendations for Congress with respect to 
        assisting the Department in these efforts.

            TITLE LXII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

   Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Europe and the Russian Federation

SEC. 6231. BLACK SEA SECURITY AND DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Black Sea 
Security Act of 2023''.
    (b) Sense of Congress on Black Sea Security.--It is the sense of 
Congress that--
            (1) it is in the interest of the United States to support 
        efforts to prevent the spread of further armed conflict in 
        Europe by recognizing the Black Sea region as an arena of 
        Russian aggression;
            (2) littoral states of the Black Sea are critical in 
        countering aggression by the Government of the Russian 
        Federation and contributing to the collective security of NATO;
            (3) the repeated, illegal, unprovoked, and violent attempts 
        of the Russian Federation to expand its territory and control 
        access to the Mediterranean Sea through the Black Sea 
        constitutes a threat to the national security of the United 
        States and NATO;
            (4) the United States condemns attempts by the Russian 
        Federation to change or alter boundaries in the Black Sea 
        region by force or any means contrary to international law and 
        to impose a sphere of influence across the region;
            (5) the United States condemns Russia's illegitimate 
        territorial claims, including those on the Crimean Peninsula, 
        along Ukraine's territorial waters in the Black Sea and the Sea 
        of Azov, in the Black Sea's international waters, and in the 
        territories it is illegally occupying in Ukraine;
            (6) the United States should continue to work within NATO 
        and with NATO allies to develop a long-term strategy to enhance 
        security, establish a permanent, sustainable presence along 
        NATO's eastern flank, and bolster the democratic resilience of 
        its allies and partners in the region;
            (7) the United States should consider whether it should 
        work within NATO and with NATO allies to develop a regular, 
        rotational maritime presence in the Black Sea;
            (8) the United States should work with the European Union 
        on coordinating a strategy to support democratic initiatives 
        and economic prosperity in the region, which includes 2 
        European Union members and 4 European Union aspirant nations;
            (9) the United States should work to foster dialogue among 
        countries within the Black Sea region to improve communication 
        and intelligence sharing and increase cyber defense 
        capabilities;
            (10) countries with historic and economic ties to Russia 
        are looking to the United States and Europe to provide a 
        positive economic presence in the broader region as a 
        counterbalance to the Russian Federation's malign influence in 
        the region;
            (11) it is in the interest of the United States to support 
        and bolster the economic ties between the United States and 
        Black Sea states;
            (12) the United States should support the initiative 
        undertaken by central and eastern European states to advance 
        the Three Seas Initiative Fund to strengthen transport, energy, 
        and digital infrastructure connectivity in the region between 
        the Adriatic Sea, Baltic Sea, and Black Sea;
            (13) there are mutually beneficial opportunities for 
        increased investment and economic expansion, particularly on 
        energy and transport infrastructure initiatives, between the 
        United States and Black Sea states and the broader region;
            (14) improved economic ties between the United States and 
        the Black Sea states and the broader region can lead to a 
        strengthened strategic partnership;
            (15) the United States must seek to address the food 
        security challenges arising from disruption of Ukraine's Black 
        Sea and Azov Sea ports, as this global challenge will have 
        critical national security implications for the United States, 
        our partners, and allies;
            (16) Turkey, in coordination with the United Nations, has 
        played an important role in alleviating global food insecurity 
        by negotiating two agreements to allow grain exports from 
        Ukrainian ports through a safe corridor in the Black Sea;
            (17) Russia has a brutal history of using hunger as a 
        weapon and must be stopped; and
            (18) countering the PRC's coercive economic pursuits 
        remains an important policy imperative in order to further 
        integrate the Black Sea states into western economies and 
        improve regional stability.
    (c) United States Policy.--It is the policy of the United States--
            (1) to actively deter the threat of Russia's further 
        escalation in the Black Sea region and defend freedom of 
        navigation in the Black Sea to prevent the spread of further 
        armed conflict in Europe;
            (2) to advocate within NATO, among NATO allies, and within 
        the European Union to develop a long-term coordinated strategy 
        to enhance security, establish a sustainable presence in the 
        eastern flank, and bolster the democratic resilience of United 
        States allies and partners in the region;
            (3) to consider whether to advocate within NATO and among 
        NATO allies to develop a regular, rotational maritime presence 
        in the Black Sea;
            (4) to support and bolster the economic ties between the 
        United States and Black Sea partners and mobilize the 
        Department of State, the Department of Defense, and other 
        relevant Federal departments and agencies by enhancing the 
        United States presence and investment in Black Sea states;
            (5) to provide economic alternatives to the PRC's coercive 
        economic options that destabilize and further erode economic 
        integration of the Black Sea states;
            (6) to ensure that the United States continues to support 
        Black Sea states' efforts to strengthen their democratic 
        institutions to prevent corruption and accelerate their 
        advancement into the Euroatlantic community; and
            (7) to encourage the initiative undertaken by central and 
        eastern European states to advance the Three Seas Initiative to 
        strengthen transport, energy, and digital infrastructure 
        connectivity in the region between the Adriatic Sea, Baltic 
        Sea, and Black Sea.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
                Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
                    (C) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
                    (D) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
                Senate;
                    (E) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate;
                    (F) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House 
                of Representatives;
                    (G) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                Representatives;
                    (H) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
                Representatives;
                    (I) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence 
                of the House of Representatives; and
                    (J) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the 
                House of Representatives.
            (2) Black sea states.--The term ``Black Sea states'' means 
        Turkey, Romania, Bulgaria, Moldova, Ukraine, and Georgia.
            (3) PRC.--The term ``PRC'' means the People's Republic of 
        China.
    (e) Black Sea Security and Development Strategy.--Not later than 
180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the National 
Security Council, in coordination with the Department of State, the 
Department of Defense, and other relevant Federal departments and 
agencies, shall direct an interagency strategy with a classified 
annex--
            (1) to increase coordination with NATO and the European 
        Union;
            (2) to deepen economic ties;
            (3) to strengthen energy security;
            (4) to support efforts to bolster their democratic 
        resilience; and
            (5) to enhance security assistance with our regional 
        partners in accordance with the values and interests of the 
        United States.
    (f) Purpose and Objectives.--The strategy authorized under 
subsection (e) shall have the following goals and objectives:
            (1) Ensuring the efficient and effective delivery of 
        security assistance to regional partners in accordance with the 
        values and interests of the United States, prioritizing 
        assistance that will bolster defenses and improve 
        interoperability with NATO forces.
            (2) Bolstering United States support for the region's 
        energy security and integration with Europe and reducing their 
        dependence on Russia while supporting energy diversification.
            (3) Mitigating the impact of economic coercion by the 
        Russian Federation and the PRC on Black Sea states and 
        identifying new opportunities for foreign direct investment 
        from the United States and cooperating countries and the 
        enhancement of United States business ties with regional 
        partners in accordance with the values and interests of the 
        United States.
            (4) Increasing high-level engagement between the United 
        States and regional partners, and reinforcing economic growth, 
        financing quality infrastructure, and reinforcing trade with a 
        focus on improving high-level economic cooperation.
            (5) Increasing United States coordination with the European 
        Union and NATO to maximize effectiveness and minimize 
        duplication.
    (g) Activities.--
            (1) Security.--The strategy authorized under subsection (e) 
        should include the following elements related to security:
                    (A) A plan to increase interagency coordination on 
                the Black Sea region.
                    (B) An assessment of whether a United States-led 
                initiative with NATO allies to increase coordination, 
                presence, and regional engagement among Black Sea 
                states is advisable.
                    (C) An assessment of whether there is a need to 
                increase security assistance or security cooperation 
                with Black Sea states, focused on Ukraine, Romania, 
                Bulgaria, Moldova, and Georgia.
                    (D) An assessment of the value of establishing a 
                United States or multinational headquarters on the 
                Black Sea, responsible for planning, readiness, 
                exercises, and coordination of military activity in the 
                greater Black Sea region.
                    (E) An assessment of the challenges and 
                opportunities of establishing a regular, rotational 
                NATO maritime presence in the Black Sea.
                    (F) An overview of Foreign Military Financing, 
                International Military Education and Training, and 
                other United States security assistance to the Black 
                Sea region.
                    (G) A plan for combating Russian disinformation and 
                propaganda in the Black Sea region that utilizes the 
                resources of the United States Government.
                    (H) A plan to promote greater freedom of navigation 
                to allow for greater security and economic Black Sea 
                access.
            (2) Economic prosperity.--The strategy authorized under 
        subsection (e) shall include the following elements related to 
        economic prosperity:
                    (A) A strategy to foster dialogue between experts 
                from the United States and from the Black Sea states on 
                economic expansion, foreign direct investment, 
                strengthening rule of law initiatives, and mitigating 
                economic coercion by Russia and the PRC.
                    (B) A strategy for all the relevant Federal 
                departments and agencies that contribute to United 
                States economic statecraft to expand their presence and 
                identify new opportunities for private investment with 
                regional partners in accordance with the values and 
                interests of the United States.
                    (C) Assessments on energy diversification, focusing 
                on the immediate need to replace energy supplies from 
                Russia, and recognizing the long-term importance of 
                broader energy diversification.
                    (D) Assessments of potential food security 
                solutions, including sustainable, long-term 
                arrangements beyond the Black Sea Grain Initiative.
            (3) Democratic resilience.--The strategy authorized under 
        subsection (e) shall include the following elements related to 
        democratic resilience:
                    (A) A strategy to increase independent media and 
                United States-supported media initiatives to combat 
                foreign malign influence in the Black Sea region.
                    (B) Greater mobilization of initiatives spearheaded 
                by the Department of State and the United States Agency 
                for International Development to counter Russian 
                propaganda and disinformation in the Black Sea region.
            (4) Regional connectivity.--The strategy authorized under 
        subsection (e) shall promote regional connectivity by sending 
        high-level representatives of the Department of State or other 
        agency partners to--
                    (A) the Black Sea region not less frequently than 
                twice per year; and
                    (B) major regional fora on infrastructure and 
                energy security, including the Three Seas Initiative 
                Summit.
    (h) Identification of Necessary Programs and Resources.--Not later 
than 360 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
interagency strategy shall identify any necessary program, policy, or 
budgetary resources required, by agency, to support the implementation 
of the Black Sea Security Strategy for fiscal years 2024, 2025, and 
2026.
    (i) Responsibilities of Federal Departments and Agencies.--Nothing 
under this section may be construed to authorize the National Security 
Council to assume any of the responsibilities or authorities of the 
head of any Federal department, agency, or office, including the 
foreign affairs responsibilities and authorities of the Secretary of 
State, to oversee the implementation of programs and policies under 
this section.

        Subtitle D--Matters Relating to the Indo-Pacific Region

SEC. 6241. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE RENEWAL OF THE COMPACTS OF FREE 
              ASSOCIATION WITH THE REPUBLIC OF PALAU, THE FEDERATED 
              STATES OF MICRONESIA, AND THE REPUBLIC OF THE MARSHALL 
              ISLANDS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) in 1947, the United Nations entrusted the United States 
        with the defense and security of the region that now 
        comprises--
                    (A) the Republic of Palau;
                    (B) the Federated States of Micronesia; and
                    (C) the Republic of the Marshall Islands;
            (2) in 1983, the United States signed Compacts of Free 
        Association with the Federated States of Micronesia and the 
        Republic of the Marshall Islands;
            (3) in 1985, the United States signed a Compact of Free 
        Association with the Republic of Palau;
            (4) in 1986, Congress--
                    (A) enacted the Compact of Free Association Act of 
                1985 (48 U.S.C. 1901 note; Public Law 99-239), which 
                approved the Compacts of Free Association with the 
                Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the 
                Marshall Islands; and
                    (B) enacted Public Law 99-658 (48 U.S.C. 1931 
                note), which approved the Compact of Free Association 
                with the Republic of Palau;
            (5) in 2003, Congress enacted the Compact of Free 
        Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921 note; Public 
        Law 108-188), which approved and renewed the Compacts of Free 
        Association with the Federated States of Micronesia and the 
        Republic of the Marshall Islands;
            (6) in 2010, the United States and the Republic of Palau 
        agreed to terms for renewing the Compact of Free Association 
        with the Republic of Palau in the Palau Compact Review 
        Agreement, which was approved by Congress in section 1259C of 
        the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (48 
        U.S.C. 1931 note; Public Law 115-91);
            (7) on January 11, 2023, the United States signed a 
        Memorandum of Understanding with the Republic of the Marshall 
        Islands on funding priorities for the Compact of Free 
        Association with the Republic of the Marshall Islands;
            (8) on May 22, 2023, the United States signed the U.S.-
        Palau 2023 Agreement, following the Compact of Free Association 
        Section 432 Review;
            (9) on May 23, 2023, the United States signed 3 agreements 
        relating to the U.S.-FSM Compact of Free Association, which 
        included--
                    (A) an Agreement to Amend the Compact, as amended;
                    (B) a new fiscal procedures agreement; and
                    (C) a new trust fund agreement; and
            (10) the United States is undergoing negotiations relating 
        to the Compact of Free Association with the Republic of the 
        Marshall Islands.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the close and strategic partnerships of the United 
        States with the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of 
        Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands are vital 
        to international peace and security in the Indo-Pacific region;
            (2) the Compacts of Free Association with the Republic of 
        Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of 
        the Marshall Islands form the political, economic, and security 
        architecture that bolsters and sustains security and drives 
        regional development and the prosperity of the larger Indo-
        Pacific community of nations;
            (3) certain provisions of the current Compacts of Free 
        Association with the Federated States of Micronesia and the 
        Republic of the Marshall Islands expire on September 30, 2023;
            (4) certain provisions of the Compact of Free Association 
        with the Republic of Palau expire on September 30, 2024;
            (5) it is in the national interest of the United States to 
        successfully renegotiate and renew the Compacts of Free 
        Association with the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of 
        Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands; and
            (6) enacting legislation to approve amended Compacts of 
        Free Association with the Republic of Palau, the Federated 
        States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands 
        is the most important way for Congress to support United States 
        strategic partnerships with the 3 countries.

SEC. 6242. ELIGIBILITY OF TAIWAN FOR THE STRATEGIC TRADE AUTHORIZATION 
              EXCEPTION TO CERTAIN EXPORT CONTROL LICENSING 
              REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Taiwan has adopted high standards in the field of 
        export controls.
            (2) Taiwan has declared its unilateral adherence to the 
        Missile Technology Control Regime, the Wassenaar Arrangement, 
        the Australia Group, and the Nuclear Suppliers Group.
            (3) At the request of President George W. Bush, section 
        1206 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 
        2003 (Public Law 107-228; 22 U.S.C. 2321k note) required that 
        Taiwan be treated as if it were designated as a major non-NATO 
        ally (as defined in section 644(q) of the Foreign Assistance 
        Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2403(q)).
    (b) Eligibility for Strategic Trade Authorization.--The President, 
consistent with the commitments of the United States under 
international arrangements, shall take steps so that Taiwan may be 
treated as if it were included in the list of countries eligible for 
the strategic trade authorization exception under section 740.20(c)(1) 
of the Export Administration Regulations to the requirement for a 
license for the export, re-export, or in-country transfer of an item 
subject to controls under the Export Administration Regulations.
    (c) Criteria.--Before the President may treat Taiwan as eligible 
for the exception described in subsection (b), the President shall 
ensure that Taiwan satisfies any applicable criteria normally required 
for inclusion in the Country Group A:5 list set forth in Supplement No. 
1 to part 740 of the Export Administration Regulations, particularly 
with respect to alignment of export control policies with such policies 
of the United States.
    (d) Export Administration Regulations Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``Export Administration Regulations'' has the meaning given 
that term in section 1742 of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (50 
U.S.C. 4801).

SEC. 6243. AUDIT TO IDENTIFY DIVERSION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FUNDING 
              TO CHINA'S RESEARCH LABS.

    Section 1263 is deemed to read as follows:

``SEC. 1263. AUDIT TO IDENTIFY DIVERSION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              FUNDING TO CHINA'S RESEARCH LABS.

    ``(a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Department of Defense Office of Inspector 
General shall conduct a study, and submit a report to Congress, 
regarding the amount of Federal funds awarded by the Department of 
Defense (whether directly or indirectly) through grants, contracts, 
subgrants, subcontracts, or any other type of agreement or 
collaboration, during the 10-year period immediately preceding such 
date of enactment, that--
            ``(1) was provided, whether purposely or inadvertently, 
        to--
                    ``(A) the People's Republic of China;
                    ``(B) the Communist Party of China;
                    ``(C) the Wuhan Institute of Virology or any other 
                organization administered by the Chinese Academy of 
                Sciences;
                    ``(D) EcoHealth Alliance Inc., including any 
                subsidiaries and related organizations that are 
                directly controlled by EcoHealth Alliance, Inc.;
                    ``(E) the Academy of Military Medical Sciences or 
                any of its research institutes, including the Beijing 
                Institute of Microbiology and Epidemiology; or
                    ``(F) any other lab, agency, organization, 
                individual, or instrumentality that is owned, 
                controlled (directly or indirectly), or overseen 
                (officially or unofficially) by any of the entities 
                listed in subparagraphs (A) through (D); or
            ``(2) was used to fund research or experiments that could 
        have reasonably resulted in the enhancement of any coronavirus, 
        influenza, Nipah, Ebola, or other pathogen of pandemic 
        potential or chimeric versions of such a virus or pathogen in 
        the People's Republic of China or any other foreign country.
    ``(b) Identification of Countries and Pathogens.--The report 
required under subsection (a) shall specify--
            ``(1) the countries in which the research or experiments 
        described in subsection (a)(2) was conducted; and
            ``(2) the pathogens involved in such research or 
        experiments.''.

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

SEC. 6291. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON DIGITAL TRADE AND THE DIGITAL 
              ECONOMY.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Over half of the world's population, totaling more than 
        5,000,000,000 people, use the internet.
            (2) The digital economy encompasses the economic and social 
        activity from billions of online connections among people, 
        businesses, devices, and data as a result of the internet, 
        mobile technology, and the internet of things.
            (3) The Bureau of Economic Analysis found that the digital 
        economy contributed nearly 10.3 percent of United States gross 
        domestic product and supported 8,000,000 United States jobs in 
        2020.
            (4) The digital sector added 1,400,000 new jobs between 
        2019 and 2022.
            (5) United States jobs supported by the digital economy 
        have sustained annual wage growth at a rate of 5.9 percent 
        since 2010, as compared to a 4.2 percent for all jobs.
            (6) In 2021, United States exports of digital services 
        surpassed $594,000,000,000, accounting for more than half of 
        all United States services exports and generating a digital 
        services trade surplus for the United States of 
        $262,300,000,000.
            (7) Digital trade bolsters the digital economy by enabling 
        the sale of goods on the internet and the supply of online 
        services across borders and depends on the free flow of data 
        across borders to promote commerce, manufacturing, and 
        innovation.
            (8) Digital trade has become increasingly vital to United 
        States workers and businesses of all sizes, including the 
        countless small and medium-sized enterprises that use digital 
        technology, data flows, and e-commerce to export goods and 
        services across the world.
            (9) Digital trade has advanced entrepreneurship 
        opportunities for women, people of color, and individuals from 
        otherwise underrepresented backgrounds and enabled the 
        formation of innovative start-ups.
            (10) International supply chains are becoming increasingly 
        digitized and data driven and businesses in a variety of 
        industries, such as construction, healthcare, transportation, 
        and aerospace, invested heavily in digital supply chain 
        technologies in 2020.
            (11) United States Trade Representative Katherine Tai said, 
        ``[T]here is no bright line separating digital trade from the 
        digital economy--or the `traditional' economy for that matter. 
        Nearly every aspect of our economy has been digitized to some 
        degree.''.
            (12) Industries outside of the technology sector, such as 
        manufacturing and agriculture, are integrating digital 
        technology into their businesses in order to increase 
        efficiency, improve safety, reach new customers, and remain 
        globally competitive.
            (13) The increasing reliance on digital technologies has 
        modernized legacy processes, accelerated workflows, increased 
        access to information and services, and strengthened security 
        in a variety of industries, leading to better health, 
        environmental, and safety outcomes.
            (14) The COVID-19 pandemic has led to increased uptake and 
        reliance on digital technologies, data flows, and e-commerce.
            (15) Ninety percent of adults in the United States say that 
        the internet has been essential or important for them 
        personally during the COVID-19 pandemic.
            (16) United States families, workers, and business owners 
        have seen how vital access to the internet has been to daily 
        life, as work, education, medicine, and communication with 
        family and friends have shifted increasingly online.
            (17) Many individuals and families, especially in rural and 
        Tribal communities, struggle to participate in the digital 
        economy because of a lack of access to a reliable internet 
        connection.
            (18) New developments in technology must be deployed with 
        consideration to the unique access challenges of rural, urban 
        underserved, and vulnerable communities.
            (19) Digital trade has the power to help level the playing 
        field and uplift those in traditionally unrepresented or 
        underrepresented communities.
            (20) Countries have negotiated international rules 
        governing digital trade in various bilateral and plurilateral 
        agreements, but those rules remain fragmented, and no 
        multilateral agreement on digital trade exists within the World 
        Trade Organization.
            (21) The United States, through free trade agreements or 
        other digital agreements, has been a leader in developing a set 
        of rules and standards on digital governance and e-commerce 
        that has helped allies and partners of the United States unlock 
        the full economic and social potential of digital trade.
            (22) Congress recognizes the need for agreements on digital 
        trade, as indicated by its support for a robust digital trade 
        chapter in the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement.
            (23) Other countries are operating under their own digital 
        rules, some of which are contrary to democratic values shared 
        by the United States and many allies and partners of the United 
        States.
            (24) Those countries are attempting to advance their own 
        digital rules on a global scale.
            (25) Examples of the plethora of nontariff barriers to 
        digital trade that have emerged around the globe include--
                    (A) overly restrictive data localization 
                requirements and limitations on cross border data flows 
                that do not achieve legitimate public policy 
                objectives;
                    (B) intellectual property rights infringement;
                    (C) policies that make market access contingent on 
                forced technology transfers or voluntary transfers 
                subject to coercive terms;
                    (D) web filtering;
                    (E) economic espionage;
                    (F) cybercrime exposure; and
                    (G) government-directed theft of trade secrets.
            (26) Certain countries are pursuing or have implemented 
        digital policies that unfairly discriminate against innovative 
        United States technology companies and United States workers 
        that create and deliver digital products and services.
            (27) The Government of the People's Republic of China is 
        currently advancing a model for digital governance and the 
        digital economy domestically and abroad through its Digital 
        Silk Road Initiative that permits censorship, surveillance, 
        human and worker rights abuses, forced technology transfers, 
        and data flow restrictions at the expense of human and worker 
        rights, privacy, the free flow of data, and an open internet.
            (28) The 2022 Country Reports on Human Rights Practices of 
        the Department of State highlighted significant human rights 
        issues committed by the People's Republic of China in the 
        digital realm, including ``arbitrary interference with privacy 
        including pervasive and intrusive technical surveillance and 
        monitoring including the use of COVID-19 tracking apps for 
        nonpublic-health purposes; punishment of family members for 
        offenses allegedly committed by an individual; serious 
        restrictions on free expression and media, including physical 
        attacks on and criminal prosecution of journalists, lawyers, 
        writers, bloggers, dissidents, petitioners, and others; serious 
        restrictions on internet freedom, including site blocking''.
            (29) The United States discourages digital 
        authoritarianism, including practices that undermine human and 
        worker rights and result in other social and economic coercion.
            (30) Allies and trading partners of the United States in 
        the Indo-Pacific region have urged the United States to deepen 
        economic engagement in the region by negotiating rules on 
        digital trade and technology standards.
            (31) The digital economy has provided new opportunities for 
        economic development, entrepreneurship, and growth in 
        developing countries around the world.
            (32) Negotiating strong digital trade principles and 
        commitments with allies and partners across the globe enables 
        the United States to unite like-minded economies around common 
        standards and ensure that principles of democracy, rule of law, 
        freedom of speech, human and worker rights, privacy, and a free 
        and open internet are at the very core of digital governance.
            (33) United States leadership and substantive engagement is 
        necessary to ensure that global digital rules reflect United 
        States values so that workers are treated fairly, small 
        businesses can compete and win in the global economy, and 
        consumers are guaranteed the right to privacy and security.
            (34) The United States supports rules that reduce digital 
        trade barriers, promote free expression and the free flow of 
        information, enhance privacy protections, protect sensitive 
        information, defend human and worker rights, prohibit forced 
        technology transfer, and promote digitally enabled commerce.
            (35) The United States supports efforts to cooperate with 
        allies and trading partners to mitigate the risks of 
        cyberattacks, address potentially illegal or deceptive business 
        activities online, promote financial inclusion and digital 
        workforce skills, and develop rules to govern the use of 
        artificial intelligence and other emerging and future 
        technologies.
    (b) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the United States should negotiate strong, inclusive, 
        forward-looking, and enforceable rules on digital trade and the 
        digital economy with like-minded countries as part of a broader 
        trade and economic strategy to address digital barriers and 
        ensure that the United States values of democracy, rule of law, 
        freedom of speech, human and worker rights, privacy, and a free 
        and open internet are at the very core of the digital world and 
        advanced technology;
            (2) in conducting such negotiations, the United States 
        must--
                    (A) pursue digital trade rules that--
                            (i) serve the best interests of workers, 
                        consumers, and small and medium-sized 
                        enterprises;
                            (ii) empower United States workers;
                            (iii) fuel wage growth; and
                            (iv) lead to materially positive economic 
                        outcomes for all people in the United States;
                    (B) ensure that any future agreement prevents the 
                adoption of non-democratic, coercive, or overly 
                restrictive policies that would be obstacles to a free 
                and open internet and harm the ability of the e-
                commerce marketplace to continue to grow and thrive;
                    (C) coordinate sufficient trade-related assistance 
                to ensure that developing countries can improve their 
                capacity and benefit from increased digital trade; and
                    (D) consult closely with all relevant stakeholders, 
                including workers, consumers, small and medium-sized 
                enterprises, civil society groups, and human rights 
                advocates; and
            (3) with respect to any negotiations for an agreement 
        facilitating digital trade, the United States Trade 
        Representative and the heads of other relevant Federal agencies 
        must consult closely and on a timely basis with Congress.

SEC. 6292. ASSESSMENT OF CERTAIN UNITED STATES-ORIGIN TECHNOLOGY USED 
              BY FOREIGN ADVERSARIES.

    (a) In General.--The Director of National Intelligence shall 
conduct an assessment to evaluate the top five technologies that 
originate in the United States and are not currently subject to export 
controls as prioritized by the Director of National Intelligence, in 
order to identify and assess the risk from those specified technologies 
that could be or are being used by foreign adversaries in foreign 
espionage programs targeting the United States.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit a report on the 
assessment required by subsection (a) to--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Select 
        Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Permanent 
        Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
        Representatives.

SEC. 6293. VIRGINIA CLASS SUBMARINE TRANSFER CERTIFICATION.

    (a) Certification Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not less than 60 days prior to 
        transferring one or more Virginia class submarines from the 
        inventory of the United States Navy to the Government of 
        Australia, under section 21 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 
        U.S.C. 2761), the President shall certify to the appropriate 
        congressional committees that--
                    (A) any submarine transferred under such authority 
                shall be used to support the joint security interests 
                and military operations of the United States and 
                Australia;
                    (B) Submarine Rotational Forces-West Full 
                Operational Capability to support 4 rotationally 
                deployed Virginia-class submarines and one Astute-class 
                submarine has been achieved, including the Government 
                of Australia having demonstrated the domestic capacity 
                to fully perform all the associated activities 
                necessary for the safe hosting and operation of 
                nuclear-powered submarines; and
                    (C) Australia Sovereign-Ready Initial Operational 
                Capability to support a Royal Australian Navy Virginia-
                class submarine has been achieved, including the 
                Government of Australia having demonstrated the 
                domestic capacity to fully perform all the associated--
                            (i) activities necessary for the safe 
                        hosting and operation of nuclear-powered 
                        submarines;
                            (ii) crewing;
                            (iii) operations;
                            (iv) regulatory and emergency procedures, 
                        including those specific to nuclear power 
                        plants; and
                            (v) detailed planning for enduring 
                        Virginia-class submarine ownership, including 
                        each significant event leading up to and 
                        including nuclear defueling.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Activities necessary for the safe hosting or operation 
        of nuclear-powered submarines.--The term ``activities necessary 
        for the safe hosting and operation of nuclear-powered 
        submarines'' means each of the following activities as it 
        relates to Virginia-class and Astute-class submarines, as 
        appropriate, and in accordance with applicable United States 
        Navy or other Government agency instructions, regulations, and 
        standards:
                    (A) Maintenance.
                    (B) Training.
                    (C) Technical oversight.
                    (D) Safety certifications.
                    (E) Physical, communications, operational, cyber, 
                and other security measures.
                    (F) Port operations and infrastructure support.
                    (G) Storage, including spare parts, repair parts, 
                and munitions.
                    (H) Hazardous material handling and storage.
                    (I) Information technology systems.
                    (J) Support functions, including those related to 
                medical, quality-of-life, and family needs.
                    (K) Such other related tasks as may be specified by 
                the Secretary of Defense.
            (2) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the 
                Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on 
                Appropriations of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee 
                on Armed Services, and the Committee on Appropriations 
                of the House of Representatives.

   TITLE LXV--SPACE ACTIVITIES, STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, AND INTELLIGENCE 
                                MATTERS

                       Subtitle B--Nuclear Forces

SEC. 6511. ANNUAL REPORT ON DEVELOPMENT OF LONG-RANGE STAND-OFF WEAPON.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than March 1, 2024, and annually 
thereafter until the date on which long-range stand-off weapon reaches 
initial operational capability, the Administrator for Nuclear Security, 
in coordination with the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chairman of 
the Nuclear Weapons Council, shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on the joint development of the long-range stand-
off weapon, including the missile developed by the Air Force and the 
W80-4 warhead life extension program conducted by the National Nuclear 
Security Administration.
    (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
            (1) An estimate of the date on which the long-range stand-
        off weapon will reach initial operational capability.
            (2) A description of any development milestones for the 
        missile developed by the Air Force or the warhead developed by 
        the National Nuclear Security Administration that depend on 
        corresponding progress at the other agency.
            (3) A description of coordination efforts between the Air 
        Force and the National Nuclear Security Administration during 
        the period covered by the report.
            (4) A description of any schedule delays projected by the 
        Air Force or the National Nuclear Security Administration and 
        the anticipated effect such delays would have on the schedule 
        of work of the other agency.
            (5) Plans to mitigate the effects of any delays described 
        in paragraph (4).
            (6) A description of any ways, including through the 
        availability of additional funding or authorities, in which the 
        development milestones described in paragraph (2) or the 
        estimated date of initial operational capability referred to in 
        paragraph (1), could be achieved more quickly.
            (7) An estimate of the acquisition costs for the long-range 
        stand-off weapon and the W80-4 warhead life extension program.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

                  TITLE LXVIII--FEND OFF FENTANYL ACT

SEC. 6801. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Fentanyl Eradication and Narcotics 
Deterrence Off Fentanyl Act'' or the ``FEND Off Fentanyl Act''.

SEC. 6802. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the proliferation of fentanyl is causing an 
        unprecedented surge in overdose deaths in the United States, 
        fracturing families and communities, and necessitating a 
        comprehensive policy response to combat its lethal flow and to 
        mitigate the drug's devastating consequences;
            (2) the trafficking of fentanyl into the United States is a 
        national security threat that has killed hundreds of thousands 
        of United States citizens;
            (3) transnational criminal organizations, including cartels 
        primarily based in Mexico, are the main purveyors of fentanyl 
        into the United States and must be held accountable;
            (4) precursor chemicals sourced from the People's Republic 
        of China are--
                    (A) shipped from the People's Republic of China by 
                legitimate and illegitimate means;
                    (B) transformed through various synthetic processes 
                to produce different forms of fentanyl; and
                    (C) crucial to the production of illicit fentanyl 
                by transnational criminal organizations, contributing 
                to the ongoing opioid crisis;
            (5) the United States Government must remain vigilant to 
        address all new forms of fentanyl precursors and drugs used in 
        combination with fentanyl, such as Xylazine, which attribute to 
        overdose deaths of people in the United States;
            (6) to increase the cost of fentanyl trafficking, the 
        United States Government should work collaboratively across 
        agencies and should surge analytic capability to impose 
        sanctions and other remedies with respect to transnational 
        criminal organizations (including cartels), including foreign 
        nationals who facilitate the trade in illicit fentanyl and its 
        precursors from the People's Republic of China; and
            (7) the Department of the Treasury should focus on fentanyl 
        trafficking and its facilitators as one of the top national 
        security priorities for the Department.

SEC. 6803. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
                Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
                Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the 
                Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) Foreign person.--The term ``foreign person''--
                    (A) means--
                            (i) any citizen or national of a foreign 
                        country; or
                            (ii) any entity not organized under the 
                        laws of the United States or a jurisdiction 
                        within the United States; and
                    (B) does not include the government of a foreign 
                country.
            (3) Knowingly.--The term ``knowingly'', with respect to 
        conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has 
        actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the 
        circumstance, or the result.
            (4) Trafficking.--The term ``trafficking'', with respect to 
        fentanyl, fentanyl precursors, or other related opioids, has 
        the meaning given the term ``opioid trafficking'' in section 
        7203 of the Fentanyl Sanctions Act (21 U.S.C. 2302).
            (5) Transnational criminal organization.--The term 
        ``transnational criminal organization'' includes--
                    (A) any organization designated as a significant 
                transnational criminal organization under part 590 of 
                title 31, Code of Federal Regulations;
                    (B) any of the organizations known as--
                            (i) the Sinaloa Cartel;
                            (ii) the Jalisco New Generation Cartel;
                            (iii) the Gulf Cartel;
                            (iv) the Los Zetas Cartel;
                            (v) the Juarez Cartel;
                            (vi) the Tijuana Cartel;
                            (vii) the Beltran-Leyva Cartel; or
                            (viii) La Familia Michoacana; or
                    (C) any other organization that the President 
                determines is a transnational criminal organization; or
                    (D) any successor organization to an organization 
                described in subparagraph (B) or as otherwise 
                determined by the President.
            (6) United states person.--The term ``United States 
        person'' means--
                    (A) a United States citizen or an alien lawfully 
                admitted for permanent residence to the United States;
                    (B) an entity organized under the laws of the 
                United States or of any jurisdiction within the United 
                States, including a foreign branch of such an entity; 
                or
                    (C) any person in the United States.

                     Subtitle A--Sanctions Matters

    PART I--SANCTIONS IN RESPONSE TO NATIONAL EMERGENCY RELATING TO 
                          FENTANYL TRAFFICKING

SEC. 6811. FINDING; POLICY.

    (a) Finding.--Congress finds that international trafficking of 
fentanyl, fentanyl precursors, or other related opioids constitutes an 
unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign 
policy, and economy of the United States, and is a national emergency.
    (b) Policy.--It shall be the policy of the United States to apply 
economic and other financial sanctions to those who engage in the 
international trafficking of fentanyl, fentanyl precursors, or other 
related opioids to protect the national security, foreign policy, and 
economy of the United States.

SEC. 6812. USE OF NATIONAL EMERGENCY AUTHORITIES; REPORTING.

    (a) In General.--The President may exercise all authorities 
provided under sections 203 and 205 of the International Emergency 
Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) to carry out this part.
    (b) Report Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the 
        President shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
        committees a report on actions taken by the executive branch 
        pursuant to this part and any national emergency declared with 
        respect to the trafficking of fentanyl and trade in other 
        illicit drugs, including--
                    (A) the issuance of any new or revised regulations, 
                policies, or guidance;
                    (B) the imposition of sanctions;
                    (C) the collection of relevant information from 
                outside parties;
                    (D) the issuance or closure of general licenses, 
                specific licenses, and statements of licensing policy 
                by the Office of Foreign Assets Control;
                    (E) a description of any pending enforcement cases; 
                or
                    (F) the implementation of mitigation procedures.
            (2) Form of report.--Each report required by paragraph (1) 
        shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include the 
        matters required by subparagraphs (C), (D), (E), and (F) of 
        that paragraph in a classified annex.

SEC. 6813. CODIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE ORDER IMPOSING SANCTIONS WITH 
              RESPECT TO FOREIGN PERSONS INVOLVED IN GLOBAL ILLICIT 
              DRUG TRADE.

    United States sanctions provided for in Executive Order 14059 (50 
U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to imposing sanctions on foreign persons 
involved in the global illicit drug trade), and any amendments to or 
directives issued pursuant to such Executive order before the date of 
the enactment of this Act, shall remain in effect.

SEC. 6814. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO FENTANYL TRAFFICKING 
              BY TRANSNATIONAL CRIMINAL ORGANIZATIONS.

    (a) In General.--The President shall impose the sanctions described 
in subsection (b) with respect to any foreign person the President 
determines--
            (1) is knowingly involved in the significant trafficking of 
        fentanyl, fentanyl precursors, or other related opioids, 
        including such trafficking by a transnational criminal 
        organization; or
            (2) otherwise is knowingly involved in significant 
        activities of a transnational criminal organization relating to 
        the trafficking of fentanyl, fentanyl precursors, or other 
        related opioids.
    (b) Sanctions Described.--The President may, pursuant to the 
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), 
block and prohibit all transactions in property and interests in 
property of a foreign person described in subsection (a) if such 
property and interests in property are in the United States, come 
within the United States, or are or come within the possession or 
control of a United States person.
    (c) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the President shall 
submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on actions 
taken by the executive branch with respect to the foreign persons 
identified under subsection (a).

SEC. 6815. PENALTIES; WAIVERS; EXCEPTIONS.

    (a) Penalties.--A person that violates, attempts to violate, 
conspires to violate, or causes a violation of this part or any 
regulation, license, or order issued to carry out this part shall be 
subject to the penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of 
section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 
U.S.C. 1705) to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful 
act described in subsection (a) of that section.
    (b) National Security Waiver.--The President may waive the 
application of sanctions under this part with respect to a foreign 
person if the President determines that the waiver is in the national 
security interest of the United States.
    (c) Exceptions.--
            (1) Exception for intelligence activities.--This part shall 
        not apply with respect to activities subject to the reporting 
        requirements under title V of the National Security Act of 1947 
        (50 U.S.C. 3091 et seq.) or any authorized intelligence 
        activities of the United States.
            (2) Exception for compliance with international obligations 
        and law enforcement activities.--Sanctions under this part 
        shall not apply with respect to an alien if admitting or 
        paroling the alien into the United States is necessary--
                    (A) to permit the United States to comply with the 
                Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the United 
                Nations, signed at Lake Success on June 26, 1947, and 
                entered into force November 21, 1947, between the 
                United Nations and the United States, or other 
                applicable international obligations of the United 
                States; or
                    (B) to carry out or assist law enforcement activity 
                of the United States.
            (3) Humanitarian exemption.--The President may not impose 
        sanctions under this part with respect to any person for 
        conducting or facilitating a transaction for the sale of 
        agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices or 
        for the provision of humanitarian assistance.

SEC. 6816. TREATMENT OF FORFEITED PROPERTY OF TRANSNATIONAL CRIMINAL 
              ORGANIZATIONS.

    (a) Transfer of Forfeited Property to Forfeiture Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Any covered forfeited property shall be 
        deposited into the Department of the Treasury Forfeiture Fund 
        established under section 9705 of title 31, United States Code, 
        or the Department of Justice Assets Forfeiture Fund established 
        under section 524(c) of title 28, United States Code.
            (2) Report required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days 
        thereafter, the President shall submit to the appropriate 
        congressional committees a report on any deposits made under 
        paragraph (1) during the 180-day period preceding submission of 
        the report.
            (3) Covered forfeited property defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``covered forfeited property'' means 
        property--
                    (A) forfeited to the United States under chapter 46 
                or section 1963 of title 18, United States Code; and
                    (B) that belonged to or was possessed by an 
                individual affiliated with or connected to a 
                transnational criminal organization subject to 
                sanctions under--
                            (i) this part;
                            (ii) the Fentanyl Sanctions Act (21 U.S.C. 
                        2301 et seq.); or
                            (iii) Executive Order 14059 (50 U.S.C. 1701 
                        note; relating to imposing sanctions on foreign 
                        persons involved in the global illicit drug 
                        trade).
    (b) Blocked Assets Under Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002.--
Nothing in this part affects the treatment of blocked assets of a 
terrorist party described in subsection (a) of section 201 of the 
Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (28 U.S.C. 1610 note).

                         PART II--OTHER MATTERS

SEC. 6821. TEN-YEAR STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS FOR VIOLATIONS OF SANCTIONS.

    (a) International Emergency Economic Powers Act.--Section 206 of 
the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Statute of Limitations.--
            ``(1) Time for commencing proceedings.--
                    ``(A) In general.--An action, suit, or proceeding 
                for the enforcement of any civil fine, penalty, or 
                forfeiture, pecuniary or otherwise, under this section 
                shall not be entertained unless commenced within ten 
                years after the latest date of the violation upon which 
                the civil fine, penalty, or forfeiture is based.
                    ``(B) Commencement.--For purposes of this 
                paragraph, the commencement of an action, suit, or 
                proceeding includes the issuance of a pre-penalty 
                notice or finding of violation.
            ``(2) Time for indictment.--No person shall be prosecuted, 
        tried, or punished for any offense under subsection (c) unless 
        the indictment is found or the information is instituted within 
        ten years after the latest date of the violation upon which the 
        indictment or information is based.''.
    (b) Trading With the Enemy Act.--Section 16 of the Trading with the 
Enemy Act (50 U.S.C. 4315) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(d) Statute of Limitations.--
            ``(1) Time for commencing proceedings.--
                    ``(A) In general.--An action, suit, or proceeding 
                for the enforcement of any civil fine, penalty, or 
                forfeiture, pecuniary or otherwise, under this section 
                shall not be entertained unless commenced within ten 
                years after the latest date of the violation upon which 
                the civil fine, penalty, or forfeiture is based.
                    ``(B) Commencement.--For purposes of this 
                paragraph, the commencement of an action, suit, or 
                proceeding includes the issuance of a pre-penalty 
                notice or finding of violation.
            ``(2) Time for indictment.--No person shall be prosecuted, 
        tried, or punished for any offense under subsection (a) unless 
        the indictment is found or the information is instituted within 
        ten years after the latest date of the violation upon which the 
        indictment or information is based.''.

SEC. 6822. CLASSIFIED REPORT AND BRIEFING ON STAFFING OF OFFICE OF 
              FOREIGN ASSETS CONTROL.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control shall provide 
to the appropriate congressional committees a classified report and 
briefing on the staffing of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, 
disaggregated by staffing dedicated to each sanctions program and each 
country or issue.

SEC. 6823. REPORT ON DRUG TRANSPORTATION ROUTES AND USE OF VESSELS WITH 
              MISLABELED CARGO.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of the Treasury, in conjunction with the heads of 
other relevant Federal agencies, shall provide to the appropriate 
congressional committees a classified report and briefing on efforts to 
target drug transportation routes and modalities, including an 
assessment of the prevalence of false cargo labeling and shipment of 
precursor chemicals without accurate tracking of the customers 
purchasing the chemicals.

SEC. 6824. REPORT ON ACTIONS OF PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA WITH RESPECT 
              TO PERSONS INVOLVED IN FENTANYL SUPPLY CHAIN.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of the Treasury, in conjunction with the heads of 
other relevant Federal agencies, shall provide to the appropriate 
congressional committees a classified report and briefing on actions 
taken by the Government of the People's Republic of China with respect 
to persons involved in the shipment of fentanyl, fentanyl analogues, 
fentanyl precursors, precursors for fentanyl analogues, and equipment 
for the manufacturing of fentanyl and fentanyl-laced counterfeit pills.

               Subtitle B--Anti-Money Laundering Matters

SEC. 6831. DESIGNATION OF ILLICIT FENTANYL TRANSACTIONS OF SANCTIONED 
              PERSONS AS OF PRIMARY MONEY LAUNDERING CONCERN.

    Subtitle A of the Fentanyl Sanctions Act (21 U.S.C. 2311 et seq.) 
is amended by inserting after section 7213 the following:

``SEC. 7213A. DESIGNATION OF TRANSACTIONS OF SANCTIONED PERSONS AS OF 
              PRIMARY MONEY LAUNDERING CONCERN.

    ``(a) In General.--If the Secretary of the Treasury determines that 
reasonable grounds exist for concluding that one or more financial 
institutions operating outside of the United States, 1 or more classes 
of transactions within, or involving, a jurisdiction outside of the 
United States, or 1 or more types of accounts within, or involving, a 
jurisdiction outside of the United States, is of primary money 
laundering concern in connection with illicit opioid trafficking, the 
Secretary of the Treasury may, by order, regulation, or otherwise as 
permitted by law--
            ``(1) require domestic financial institutions and domestic 
        financial agencies to take 1 or more of the special measures 
        provided for in section 9714(a)(1) of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116-283; 31 
        U.S.C. 5318A note); or
            ``(2) prohibit, or impose conditions upon, certain 
        transmittals of funds (to be defined by the Secretary) by any 
        domestic financial institution or domestic financial agency, if 
        such transmittal of funds involves any such institution, class 
        of transaction, or type of accounts.
    ``(b) Classified Information.--In any judicial review of a finding 
of the existence of a primary money laundering concern, or of the 
requirement for 1 or more special measures with respect to a primary 
money laundering concern made under this section, if the designation or 
imposition, or both, were based on classified information (as defined 
in section 1(a) of the Classified Information Procedures Act (18 U.S.C. 
App.)), such information may be submitted by the Secretary to the 
reviewing court ex parte and in camera. This subsection does not confer 
or imply any right to judicial review of any finding made or any 
requirement imposed under this section.
    ``(c) Availability of Information.--The exemptions from, and 
prohibitions on, search and disclosure referred to in section 9714(c) 
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public 
Law 116-283; 31 U.S.C. 5318A note) shall apply to any report or record 
of report filed pursuant to a requirement imposed under subsection (a). 
For purposes of section 552 of title 5, United States Code, this 
subsection shall be considered a statute described in subsection 
(b)(3)(B) of that section.
    ``(d) Penalties.--The penalties referred to in section 9714(d) of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 
116-283; 31 U.S.C. 5318A note) shall apply to violations of any order, 
regulation, special measure, or other requirement imposed under 
subsection (a), in the same manner and to the same extent as described 
in such section 9714(d).
    ``(e) Injunctions.--The Secretary of the Treasury may bring a civil 
action to enjoin a violation of any order, regulation, special measure, 
or other requirement imposed under subsection (a) in the same manner 
and to the same extent as described in section 9714(e) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116-283; 31 
U.S.C. 5318A note).''.

SEC. 6832. TREATMENT OF TRANSNATIONAL CRIMINAL ORGANIZATIONS IN 
              SUSPICIOUS TRANSACTIONS REPORTS OF THE FINANCIAL CRIMES 
              ENFORCEMENT NETWORK.

    (a) Filing Instructions.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Financial Crimes 
Enforcement Network shall issue guidance or instructions to United 
States financial institutions for filing reports on suspicious 
transactions required by section 1010.320 of title 31, Code of Federal 
Regulations, related to suspected fentanyl trafficking by transnational 
criminal organizations.
    (b) Prioritization of Reports Relating to Fentanyl Trafficking or 
Transnational Criminal Organizations.--The Director shall prioritize 
research into reports described in subsection (a) that indicate a 
connection to trafficking of fentanyl or related synthetic opioids or 
financing of suspected transnational criminal organizations.

SEC. 6833. REPORT ON TRADE-BASED MONEY LAUNDERING IN TRADE WITH MEXICO, 
              THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA, AND BURMA.

    (a) In General.--In the first update to the national strategy for 
combating the financing of terrorism and related forms of illicit 
finance submitted to Congress after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall include a report on trade-
based money laundering originating in Mexico or the People's Republic 
of China and involving Burma.
    (b) Definition.--In this section, the term ``national strategy for 
combating the financing of terrorism and related forms of illicit 
finance'' means the national strategy for combating the financing of 
terrorism and related forms of illicit finance required by section 261 
of the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (Public 
Law 115-44; 131 Stat. 934), as amended by section 6506 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117-81; 135 
Stat. 2428).

         Subtitle C--Exception Relating to Importation of Goods

SEC. 6841. EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTATION OF GOODS.

    (a) In General.--The authority or a requirement to block and 
prohibit all transactions in all property and interests in property 
under this title shall not include the authority or a requirement to 
impose sanctions on the importation of goods.
    (b) Good Defined.--In this section, the term ``good'' means any 
article, natural or manmade substance, material, supply or manufactured 
product, including inspection and test equipment, and excluding 
technical data.

      TITLE LXXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND GENERAL PROVISIONS

                      Subtitle B--Military Housing

                    PART III--OTHER HOUSING MATTERS

SEC. 7851. REPORT ON PLAN TO REPLACE HOUSES AT FORT LEONARD WOOD.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of the Army shall submit to Congress an unclassified 
report on the plan of the Army to replace all 1,142 houses at Fort 
Leonard Wood that the Army has designated as being in need of repair.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

SEC. 7881. STUDY ON IMPACT ON MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND 
              DEPENDENTS OF CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS THAT AFFECT QUALITY 
              OF LIFE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a study, 
through the use of an independent and objective organization outside 
the Department of Defense, on the correlation between military 
construction projects and facilities sustainment, restoration, and 
modernization projects at installations of the Department of Defense 
that affect the quality of life of members of the Armed Forces and 
their dependents and the following:
            (1) Retention of members of the Armed Forces on active 
        duty.
            (2) Physical health of members of the Armed Forces, 
        including an identification of whether the age, condition, and 
        deferred maintenance of a dormitory or barracks is in any way 
        related to the frequency of sexual assaults and other crimes at 
        installations of the Department.
            (3) Mental health of members of the Armed Forces.
    (b) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the 
House of Representatives a report on the study conducted under 
subsection (a).

SEC. 7882. MODIFICATION OF PILOT PROGRAM ON ESTABLISHMENT OF ACCOUNT 
              FOR REIMBURSEMENT FOR USE OF TESTING FACILITIES AT 
              INSTALLATIONS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE.

    (a) In General.--Section 2862 of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (division B of Public Law 117-
81; 10 U.S.C. 9771 note prec.) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``testing'' and 
        inserting ``Major Range and Test Facility Base (MRTFB)'';
            (2) in subsection (b), by inserting ``, have Major Range 
        and Test Facility Base facilities,'' after ``construct'';
            (3) by amending subsection (c) to read as follows:
    ``(c) Oversight of Funds.--
            ``(1) Use of amounts.--The commander of an installation 
        selected to participate in the pilot program may obligate or 
        expend amounts reimbursed under the pilot program for projects 
        at the installation.
            ``(2) Designation of maintenance costs.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The commander of an installation 
                selected to participate in the pilot program may 
                designate the appropriate amount of maintenance costs 
                to be charged to users of Major Range and Test Facility 
                Base facilities under the pilot program.
                    ``(B) Use of maintenance cost reimbursements.--
                Maintenance cost reimbursements under subparagraph (A) 
                for an installation may be used either singly or in 
                combination with appropriated funds to satisfy the 
                costs of maintenance projects at the installation.
            ``(3) Oversight.--The commander of an installation selected 
        for the pilot program shall have direct oversight over amounts 
        reimbursed to the installation under the pilot program for 
        Facility, Sustainment, Restoration, and Modernization.'';
            (4) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f);
            (5) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
        subsection (e):
    ``(e) No Reduction of Appropriation.--In order to allow full 
assessment of the viability of the pilot program, appropriations to 
installations selected to participate in the pilot program for 
Facility, Sustainment, Restoration, and Modernization shall not be 
reduced on the basis of participation in the pilot program or usage of 
the pilot program reimbursements and realized reimbursements from 
customers under the pilot program shall not be used as a basis for 
reduction of such appropriations.''; and
            (6) in subsection (f) as redesignated by paragraph (2), by 
        striking ``December 1, 2026'' and inserting ``December 1, 
        2027''.
    (b) Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) Section header.--The header for such section is amended 
        to read as follows:

``SEC. 2862. PILOT PROGRAM TO AUGMENT APPROPRIATED AMOUNTS WITH 
              MAINTENANCE REIMBURSEMENTS FROM MAJOR RANGE AND TEST 
              FACILITY BASE USERS AT INSTALLATIONS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
              THE AIR FORCE.''.

            (2) Table of contents.--The table of contents for the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public 
        Law 117-81) and the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2022 (division B of Public Law 117-81) are each 
        amended by striking the item relating to section 2862 and 
        inserting the following new item:

``Sec. 2862. Pilot program to augment appropriated amounts with 
                            maintenance reimbursements from Major Range 
                            and Test Facility Base users at 
                            installations of the Department of the Air 
                            Force.''.

      TITLE LXXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

SEC. 8141. ACCELERATING DEPLOYMENT OF VERSATILE, ADVANCED NUCLEAR FOR 
              CLEAN ENERGY.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Accelerating 
Deployment of Versatile, Advanced Nuclear for Clean Energy Act of 
2023'' or the ``ADVANCE Act of 2023''.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Accident tolerant fuel.--The term ``accident tolerant 
        fuel'' has the meaning given the term in section 107(a) of the 
        Nuclear Energy Innovation and Modernization Act (Public Law 
        115-439; 132 Stat. 5577).
            (2) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
            (3) Advanced nuclear fuel.--The term ``advanced nuclear 
        fuel'' means--
                    (A) advanced nuclear reactor fuel; and
                    (B) accident tolerant fuel.
            (4) Advanced nuclear reactor.--The term ``advanced nuclear 
        reactor'' has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the 
        Nuclear Energy Innovation and Modernization Act (42 U.S.C. 2215 
        note; Public Law 115-439).
            (5) Advanced nuclear reactor fuel.--The term ``advanced 
        nuclear reactor fuel'' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 3 of the Nuclear Energy Innovation and Modernization 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 2215 note; Public Law 115-439).
            (6) Appropriate committees of Congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Environment and Public Works 
                of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the 
                House of Representatives.
            (7) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Nuclear 
        Regulatory Commission.
            (8) Institution of higher education.--The term 
        ``institution of higher education'' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 1001(a)).
            (9) National laboratory.--The term ``National Laboratory'' 
        has the meaning given the term in section 2 of the Energy 
        Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801).
    (c) International Nuclear Reactor Export and Innovation 
Activities.--
            (1) Coordination.--
                    (A) In general.--The Commission shall--
                            (i) coordinate all work of the Commission 
                        relating to--
                                    (I) nuclear reactor import and 
                                export licensing; and
                                    (II) international regulatory 
                                cooperation and assistance relating to 
                                nuclear reactors, including with 
                                countries that are members of--
                                            (aa) the Organisation for 
                                        Economic Co-operation and 
                                        Development; or
                                            (bb) the Nuclear Energy 
                                        Agency; and
                            (ii) support interagency and international 
                        coordination with respect to--
                                    (I) the consideration of 
                                international technical standards to 
                                establish the licensing and regulatory 
                                basis to assist the design, 
                                construction, and operation of nuclear 
                                systems;
                                    (II) efforts to help build 
                                competent nuclear regulatory 
                                organizations and legal frameworks in 
                                countries seeking to develop nuclear 
                                power; and
                                    (III) exchange programs and 
                                training provided, in coordination with 
                                the Secretary of State, to other 
                                countries relating to nuclear 
                                regulation and oversight to improve 
                                nuclear technology licensing, in 
                                accordance with subparagraph (B).
                    (B) Exchange programs and training.--With respect 
                to the exchange programs and training described in 
                subparagraph (A)(ii)(III), the Commission shall 
                coordinate, as applicable, with--
                            (i) the Secretary of Energy;
                            (ii) the Secretary of State;
                            (iii) National Laboratories;
                            (iv) the private sector; and
                            (v) institutions of higher education.
            (2) Authority to establish branch.--The Commission may 
        establish within the Office of International Programs a branch, 
        to be known as the ``International Nuclear Reactor Export and 
        Innovation Branch'', to carry out such international nuclear 
        reactor export and innovation activities as the Commission 
        determines to be appropriate and within the mission of the 
        Commission.
            (3) Exclusion of international activities from the fee 
        base.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 102 of the Nuclear Energy 
                Innovation and Modernization Act (42 U.S.C. 2215) is 
                amended--
                            (i) in subsection (a), by adding at the end 
                        the following:
            ``(4) International nuclear reactor export and innovation 
        activities.--The Commission shall identify in the annual budget 
        justification international nuclear reactor export and 
        innovation activities described in subsection (c)(1) of the 
        ADVANCE Act of 2023.''; and
                            (ii) in subsection (b)(1)(B), by adding at 
                        the end the following:
                            ``(iv) Costs for international nuclear 
                        reactor export and innovation activities 
                        described in subsection (c)(1) of the ADVANCE 
                        Act of 2023.''.
                    (B) Effective date.--The amendments made by 
                subparagraph (A) shall take effect on October 1, 2024.
            (4) Coordination.--The Commission shall coordinate all 
        international activities under this subsection with the 
        Secretary of State and other applicable agencies, as 
        appropriate.
            (5) Savings clause.--Nothing in this subsection alters the 
        authority of the Commission to license and regulate the 
        civilian use of radioactive materials.
    (d) Denial of Certain Domestic Licenses for National Security 
Purposes.--
            (1) Definition of covered fuel.--In this subsection, the 
        term ``covered fuel'' means enriched uranium that is fabricated 
        into fuel assemblies for nuclear reactors by an entity that--
                    (A) is owned or controlled by the Government of the 
                Russian Federation or the Government of the People's 
                Republic of China; or
                    (B) is organized under the laws of, or otherwise 
                subject to the jurisdiction of, the Russian Federation 
                or the People's Republic of China.
            (2) Prohibition on unlicensed possession or ownership of 
        covered fuel.--Unless specifically authorized by the Commission 
        in a license issued under section 53 of the Atomic Energy Act 
        of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2073) and part 70 of title 10, Code of 
        Federal Regulations (or successor regulations), no person 
        subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission may possess or 
        own covered fuel.
            (3) License to possess or own covered fuel.--
                    (A) Consultation required prior to issuance.--The 
                Commission shall not issue a license to possess or own 
                covered fuel under section 53 of the Atomic Energy Act 
                of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2073) and part 70 of title 10, Code 
                of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations), 
                unless the Commission has first consulted with the 
                Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of State before 
                issuing the license.
                    (B) Prohibition on issuance of license.--
                            (i) In general.--Subject to clause (iii), a 
                        license to possess or own covered fuel shall 
                        not be issued if the Secretary of Energy and 
                        the Secretary of State make the determination 
                        described in clause (ii)(I)(aa).
                            (ii) Determination.--
                                    (I) In general.--The determination 
                                referred to in clause (i) is a 
                                determination that possession or 
                                ownership, as applicable, of covered 
                                fuel--
                                            (aa) poses a threat to the 
                                        national security of the United 
                                        States, including because of an 
                                        adverse impact on the physical 
                                        and economic security of the 
                                        United States; or
                                            (bb) does not pose a threat 
                                        to the national security of the 
                                        United States.
                                    (II) Joint determination.--A 
                                determination described in subclause 
                                (I) shall be jointly made by the 
                                Secretary of Energy and the Secretary 
                                of State.
                                    (III) Timeline.--
                                            (aa) Notice of 
                                        application.--Not later than 30 
                                        days after the date on which 
                                        the Commission receives an 
                                        application for a license to 
                                        possess or own covered fuel, 
                                        the Commission shall notify the 
                                        Secretary of Energy and the 
                                        Secretary of State of the 
                                        application.
                                            (bb) Determination.--The 
                                        Secretary of Energy and the 
                                        Secretary of State shall have a 
                                        period of 180 days, beginning 
                                        on the date on which the 
                                        Commission notifies the 
                                        Secretary of Energy and the 
                                        Secretary of State under item 
                                        (aa) of an application for a 
                                        license to possess or own 
                                        covered fuel, in which to make 
                                        the determination described in 
                                        subclause (I).
                                            (cc) Commission 
                                        notification.--On making the 
                                        determination described in 
                                        subclause (I), the Secretary of 
                                        Energy and the Secretary of 
                                        State shall immediately notify 
                                        the Commission.
                                            (dd) Congressional 
                                        notification.--Not later than 
                                        30 days after the date on which 
                                        the Secretary of Energy and the 
                                        Secretary of State notify the 
                                        Commission under item (cc), the 
                                        Commission shall notify the 
                                        appropriate committees of 
                                        Congress, the Committee on 
                                        Foreign Relations of the 
                                        Senate, the Committee on Energy 
                                        and Natural Resources of the 
                                        Senate, and the Committee on 
                                        Foreign Affairs of the House of 
                                        Representatives of the 
                                        determination.
                                            (ee) Public notice.--Not 
                                        later than 15 days after the 
                                        date on which the Commission 
                                        notifies Congress under item 
                                        (dd) of a determination made 
                                        under subclause (I), the 
                                        Commission shall make that 
                                        determination publicly 
                                        available.
                            (iii) Effect of no determination.--The 
                        Commission shall not issue a license if the 
                        Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of State 
                        have not made a determination described in 
                        clause (ii).
            (4) Savings clause.--Nothing in this subsection alters any 
        treaty or international agreement in effect on the date of 
        enactment of this Act or that enters into force after the date 
        of enactment of this Act.
    (e) Export License Requirements.--
            (1) Definition of low-enriched uranium.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``low-enriched uranium'' means uranium 
        enriched to less than 20 percent of the uranium-235 isotope.
            (2) Requirement.--The Commission shall not issue an export 
        license for the transfer of any item described in paragraph (4) 
        to a country described in paragraph (3) unless the Commission, 
        in consultation with the Secretary of State and any other 
        relevant agencies, makes a determination that such transfer 
        will not be inimical to the common defense and security of the 
        United States.
            (3) Countries described.--A country referred to in 
        paragraph (2) is a country that--
                    (A) has not concluded and ratified an Additional 
                Protocol to its safeguards agreement with the 
                International Atomic Energy Agency; or
                    (B) has not ratified or acceded to the amendment to 
                the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear 
                Material, adopted at Vienna October 26, 1979, and 
                opened for signature at New York March 3, 1980 (TIAS 
                11080), described in the information circular of the 
                International Atomic Energy Agency numbered INFCIRC/
                274/Rev.1/Mod.1 and dated May 9, 2016 (TIAS 16-508).
            (4) Items described.--An item referred to in paragraph (2) 
        includes--
                    (A) unirradiated nuclear fuel containing special 
                nuclear material (as defined in section 11 of the 
                Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2014)), excluding 
                low-enriched uranium;
                    (B) a nuclear reactor that uses nuclear fuel 
                described in subparagraph (A); and
                    (C) any plant or component listed in Appendix I to 
                part 110 of title 10, Code of Federal Regulations (or 
                successor regulations), that is involved in--
                            (i) the reprocessing of irradiated nuclear 
                        reactor fuel elements;
                            (ii) the separation of plutonium; or
                            (iii) the separation of the uranium-233 
                        isotope.
            (5) Notification.--If the Commission, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of State and any other relevant agencies, makes a 
        determination, in accordance with applicable laws and 
        regulations, under paragraph (2) that the transfer of any item 
        described in paragraph (4) to a country described in paragraph 
        (3) will not be inimical to the common defense and security of 
        the United States, the Commission shall notify the appropriate 
        committees of Congress, the Committee on Foreign Relations of 
        the Senate, the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of 
        the Senate, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House 
        of Representatives.
    (f) Fees for Advanced Nuclear Reactor Application Review.--
            (1) Definitions.--Section 3 of the Nuclear Energy 
        Innovation and Modernization Act (42 U.S.C. 2215 note; Public 
        Law 115-439) is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (15) as 
                paragraphs (3), (6), (7), (8), (9), (10), (12), (15), 
                (16), (17), (18), (19), (20), and (21), respectively;
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
            ``(2) Advanced nuclear reactor applicant.--The term 
        `advanced nuclear reactor applicant' means an entity that has 
        submitted to the Commission an application to receive a license 
        for an advanced nuclear reactor under the Atomic Energy Act of 
        1954 (42 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.).'';
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (3) (as so 
                redesignated) the following:
            ``(4) Advanced nuclear reactor pre-applicant.--The term 
        `advanced nuclear reactor pre-applicant' means an entity that 
        has submitted to the Commission a licensing project plan for 
        the purposes of submitting a future application to receive a 
        license for an advanced nuclear reactor under the Atomic Energy 
        Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.).
            ``(5) Agency support.--The term `agency support' means the 
        resources of the Commission that are located in executive, 
        administrative, and other support offices of the Commission, as 
        described in the document of the Commission entitled `FY 2023 
        Final Fee Rule Work Papers' (or a successor document).'';
                    (D) by inserting after paragraph (10) (as so 
                redesignated) the following:
            ``(11) Hourly rate for mission-direct program salaries and 
        benefits for the nuclear reactor safety program.--The term 
        `hourly rate for mission-direct program salaries and benefits 
        for the Nuclear Reactor Safety Program' means the quotient 
        obtained by dividing--
                    ``(A) the full-time equivalent rate (within the 
                meaning of the document of the Commission entitled `FY 
                2023 Final Fee Rule Work Papers' (or a successor 
                document)) for mission-direct program salaries and 
                benefits for the Nuclear Reactor Safety Program (as 
                determined by the Commission) for a fiscal year; by
                    ``(B) the productive hours assumption for that 
                fiscal year, determined in accordance with the formula 
                established in the document referred to in subparagraph 
                (A) (or a successor document).''; and
                    (E) by inserting after paragraph (12) (as so 
                redesignated) the following:
            ``(13) Mission-direct program salaries and benefits for the 
        nuclear reactor safety program.--The term `mission-direct 
        program salaries and benefits for the Nuclear Reactor Safety 
        Program' means the resources of the Commission that are 
        allocated to the Nuclear Reactor Safety Program (as determined 
        by the Commission) to perform core work activities committed to 
        fulfilling the mission of the Commission, as described in the 
        document of the Commission entitled `FY 2023 Final Fee Rule 
        Work Papers' (or a successor document).
            ``(14) Mission-indirect program support.--The term 
        `mission-indirect program support' means the resources of the 
        Commission that support the core mission-direct activities for 
        the Nuclear Reactor Safety Program of the Commission (as 
        determined by the Commission), as described in the document of 
        the Commission entitled `FY 2023 Final Fee Rule Work Papers' 
        (or a successor document).''.
            (2) Excluded activities.--Section 102(b)(1)(B) of the 
        Nuclear Energy Innovation and Modernization Act (42 U.S.C. 
        2215(b)(1)(B)) (as amended by subsection (c)(3)(A)(ii)) is 
        amended by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(v) The total costs of mission-indirect 
                        program support and agency support that, under 
                        paragraph (2)(B), may not be included in the 
                        hourly rate charged for fees assessed to 
                        advanced nuclear reactor applicants.
                            ``(vi) The total costs of mission-indirect 
                        program support and agency support that, under 
                        paragraph (2)(C), may not be included in the 
                        hourly rate charged for fees assessed to 
                        advanced nuclear reactor pre-applicants.''.
            (3) Fees for service or thing of value.--Section 102(b) of 
        the Nuclear Energy Innovation and Modernization Act (42 U.S.C. 
        2215(b)) is amended by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(2) Fees for service or thing of value.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In accordance with section 9701 
                of title 31, United States Code, the Commission shall 
                assess and collect fees from any person who receives a 
                service or thing of value from the Commission to cover 
                the costs to the Commission of providing the service or 
                thing of value.
                    ``(B) Advanced nuclear reactor applicants.--The 
                hourly rate charged for fees assessed to advanced 
                nuclear reactor applicants under this paragraph 
                relating to the review of a submitted application 
                described in section 3(1) shall not exceed the hourly 
                rate for mission-direct program salaries and benefits 
                for the Nuclear Reactor Safety Program.
                    ``(C) Advanced nuclear reactor pre-applicants.--The 
                hourly rate charged for fees assessed to advanced 
                nuclear reactor pre-applicants under this paragraph 
                relating to the review of submitted materials as 
                described in the licensing project plan of an advanced 
                nuclear reactor pre-applicant shall not exceed the 
                hourly rate for mission-direct program salaries and 
                benefits for the Nuclear Reactor Safety Program.''.
            (4) Sunset.--Section 102 of the Nuclear Energy Innovation 
        and Modernization Act (42 U.S.C. 2215) is amended by adding at 
        the end the following:
    ``(g) Cessation of Effectiveness.--Paragraphs (1)(B)(vi) and (2)(C) 
of subsection (b) shall cease to be effective on September 30, 2029.''.
            (5) Effective date.--The amendments made by this subsection 
        shall take effect on October 1, 2024.
    (g) Advanced Nuclear Reactor Prizes.--Section 103 of the Nuclear 
Energy Innovation and Modernization Act (Public Law 115-439; 132 Stat. 
5571) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f) Prizes for Advanced Nuclear Reactor Licensing.--
            ``(1) Definition of eligible entity.--In this subsection, 
        the term `eligible entity' means--
                    ``(A) a non-Federal entity; and
                    ``(B) the Tennessee Valley Authority.
            ``(2) Prize for advanced nuclear reactor licensing.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Notwithstanding section 169 of 
                the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2209) and 
                subject to the availability of appropriations, the 
                Secretary is authorized to make, with respect to each 
                award category described in subparagraph (C), an award 
                in an amount described in subparagraph (B) to the first 
                eligible entity--
                            ``(i) to which the Commission issues an 
                        operating license for an advanced nuclear 
                        reactor under part 50 of title 10, Code of 
                        Federal Regulations (or successor regulations), 
                        for which an application has not been approved 
                        by the Commission as of the date of enactment 
                        of this subsection; or
                            ``(ii) for which the Commission makes a 
                        finding described in section 52.103(g) of title 
                        10, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor 
                        regulations), with respect to a combined 
                        license for an advanced nuclear reactor--
                                    ``(I) that is issued under subpart 
                                C of part 52 of that title (or 
                                successor regulations); and
                                    ``(II) for which an application has 
                                not been approved by the Commission as 
                                of the date of enactment of this 
                                subsection.
                    ``(B) Amount of award.--An award under subparagraph 
                (A) shall be in an amount equal to the total amount 
                assessed by the Commission and collected under section 
                102(b)(2) from the eligible entity receiving the award 
                for costs relating to the issuance of the license 
                described in that subparagraph, including, as 
                applicable, costs relating to the issuance of an 
                associated construction permit described in section 
                50.23 of title 10, Code of Federal Regulations (or 
                successor regulations), or early site permit (as 
                defined in section 52.1 of that title (or successor 
                regulations)).
                    ``(C) Award categories.--An award under 
                subparagraph (A) may be made for--
                            ``(i) the first advanced nuclear reactor 
                        for which the Commission--
                                    ``(I) issues a license in 
                                accordance with clause (i) of 
                                subparagraph (A); or
                                    ``(II) makes a finding in 
                                accordance with clause (ii) of that 
                                subparagraph;
                            ``(ii) an advanced nuclear reactor that--
                                    ``(I) uses isotopes derived from 
                                spent nuclear fuel (as defined in 
                                section 2 of the Nuclear Waste Policy 
                                Act of 1982 (42 U.S.C. 10101)) or 
                                depleted uranium as fuel for the 
                                advanced nuclear reactor; and
                                    ``(II) is the first advanced 
                                nuclear reactor described in subclause 
                                (I) for which the Commission--
                                            ``(aa) issues a license in 
                                        accordance with clause (i) of 
                                        subparagraph (A); or
                                            ``(bb) makes a finding in 
                                        accordance with clause (ii) of 
                                        that subparagraph;
                            ``(iii) an advanced nuclear reactor that--
                                    ``(I) is a nuclear integrated 
                                energy system--
                                            ``(aa) that is composed of 
                                        2 or more co-located or jointly 
                                        operated subsystems of energy 
                                        generation, energy storage, or 
                                        other technologies;
                                            ``(bb) in which not fewer 
                                        than 1 subsystem described in 
                                        item (aa) is a nuclear energy 
                                        system; and
                                            ``(cc) the purpose of which 
                                        is--

                                                    ``(AA) to reduce 
                                                greenhouse gas 
                                                emissions in both the 
                                                power and nonpower 
                                                sectors; and

                                                    ``(BB) to maximize 
                                                energy production and 
                                                efficiency; and

                                    ``(II) is the first advanced 
                                nuclear reactor described in subclause 
                                (I) for which the Commission--
                                            ``(aa) issues a license in 
                                        accordance with clause (i) of 
                                        subparagraph (A); or
                                            ``(bb) makes a finding in 
                                        accordance with clause (ii) of 
                                        that subparagraph;
                            ``(iv) an advanced reactor that--
                                    ``(I) operates flexibly to generate 
                                electricity or high temperature process 
                                heat for nonelectric applications; and
                                    ``(II) is the first advanced 
                                nuclear reactor described in subclause 
                                (I) for which the Commission--
                                            ``(aa) issues a license in 
                                        accordance with clause (i) of 
                                        subparagraph (A); or
                                            ``(bb) makes a finding in 
                                        accordance with clause (ii) of 
                                        that subparagraph; and
                            ``(v) the first advanced nuclear reactor 
                        for which the Commission grants approval to 
                        load nuclear fuel pursuant to the technology-
                        inclusive regulatory framework established 
                        under subsection (a)(4).
            ``(3) Federal funding limitations.--
                    ``(A) Exclusion of tva funds.--In this paragraph, 
                the term `Federal funds' does not include funds 
                received under the power program of the Tennessee 
                Valley Authority.
                    ``(B) Limitation on amounts expended.--An award 
                under this subsection shall not exceed the total amount 
                expended (excluding any expenditures made with Federal 
                funds received for the applicable project and an amount 
                equal to the minimum cost-share required under section 
                988 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16352)) 
                by the eligible entity receiving the award for 
                licensing costs relating to the project for which the 
                award is made.
                    ``(C) Repayment and dividends not required.--
                Notwithstanding section 9104(a)(4) of title 31, United 
                States Code, or any other provision of law, an eligible 
                entity that receives an award under this subsection 
                shall not be required--
                            ``(i) to repay that award or any part of 
                        that award; or
                            ``(ii) to pay a dividend, interest, or 
                        other similar payment based on the sum of that 
                        award.''.
    (h) Report on Unique Licensing Considerations Relating to the Use 
of Nuclear Energy for Nonelectric Applications.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 270 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Commission shall submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress a report (referred to in 
        this subsection as the ``report'') addressing any unique 
        licensing issues or requirements relating to--
                    (A) the flexible operation of nuclear reactors, 
                such as ramping power output and switching between 
                electricity generation and nonelectric applications;
                    (B) the use of advanced nuclear reactors 
                exclusively for nonelectric applications; and
                    (C) the colocation of nuclear reactors with 
                industrial plants or other facilities.
            (2) Stakeholder input.--In developing the report, the 
        Commission shall seek input from--
                    (A) the Secretary of Energy;
                    (B) the nuclear energy industry;
                    (C) technology developers;
                    (D) the industrial, chemical, and medical sectors;
                    (E) nongovernmental organizations; and
                    (F) other public stakeholders.
            (3) Contents.--
                    (A) In general.--The report shall describe--
                            (i) any unique licensing issues or 
                        requirements relating to the matters described 
                        in subparagraphs (A) through (C) of paragraph 
                        (1), including, with respect to the nonelectric 
                        applications referred to in subparagraphs (A) 
                        and (B) of that paragraph, any licensing issues 
                        or requirements relating to the use of nuclear 
                        energy in--
                                    (I) hydrogen or other liquid and 
                                gaseous fuel or chemical production;
                                    (II) water desalination and 
                                wastewater treatment;
                                    (III) heat for industrial 
                                processes;
                                    (IV) district heating;
                                    (V) energy storage;
                                    (VI) industrial or medical isotope 
                                production; and
                                    (VII) other applications, as 
                                identified by the Commission;
                            (ii) options for addressing those issues or 
                        requirements--
                                    (I) within the existing regulatory 
                                framework of the Commission;
                                    (II) as part of the technology-
                                inclusive regulatory framework required 
                                under subsection (a)(4) of section 103 
                                of the Nuclear Energy Innovation and 
                                Modernization Act (42 U.S.C. 2133 note; 
                                Public Law 115-439) or described in the 
                                report required under subsection (e) of 
                                that section (Public Law 115-439; 132 
                                Stat. 5575); or
                                    (III) through a new rulemaking; and
                            (iii) the extent to which Commission action 
                        is needed to implement any matter described in 
                        the report.
                    (B) Cost estimates, budgets, and timeframes.--The 
                report shall include cost estimates, proposed budgets, 
                and proposed timeframes for implementing risk-informed 
                and performance-based regulatory guidance in the 
                licensing of nuclear reactors for nonelectric 
                applications.
    (i) Enabling Preparations for the Demonstration of Advanced Nuclear 
Reactors on Department of Energy Sites or Critical National Security 
Infrastructure Sites.--
            (1) In general.--Section 102(b)(1)(B) of the Nuclear Energy 
        Innovation and Modernization Act (42 U.S.C. 2215(b)(1)(B)) (as 
        amended by subsection (f)(2)) is amended by adding at the end 
        the following:
                            ``(vii) Costs for--
                                    ``(I) activities to review and 
                                approve or disapprove an application 
                                for an early site permit (as defined in 
                                section 52.1 of title 10, Code of 
                                Federal Regulations (or a successor 
                                regulation)) to demonstrate an advanced 
                                nuclear reactor on a Department of 
                                Energy site or critical national 
                                security infrastructure (as defined in 
                                section 327(d) of the John S. McCain 
                                National Defense Authorization Act for 
                                Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 
                                132 Stat. 1722)) site; and
                                    ``(II) pre-application activities 
                                relating to an early site permit (as 
                                defined in section 52.1 of title 10, 
                                Code of Federal Regulations (or a 
                                successor regulation)) to demonstrate 
                                an advanced nuclear reactor on a 
                                Department of Energy site or critical 
                                national security infrastructure (as 
                                defined in section 327(d) of the John 
                                S. McCain National Defense 
                                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 
                                (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1722)) 
                                site.''.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendment made by paragraph (1) 
        shall take effect on October 1, 2024.
    (j) Clarification on Fusion Regulation.--Section 103(a)(4) of the 
Nuclear Energy Innovation and Modernization Act (42 U.S.C. 2133 note; 
Public Law 115-439) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Not later'' and inserting the following:
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) Exclusion of fusion reactors.--For purposes 
                of subparagraph (A), the term `advanced reactor 
                applicant' does not include an applicant seeking a 
                license for a fusion reactor.''.
    (k) Regulatory Issues for Nuclear Facilities at Brownfield Sites.--
            (1) Definitions.--
                    (A) Brownfield site.--The term ``brownfield site'' 
                has the meaning given the term in section 101 of the 
                Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
                Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601).
                    (B) Production facility.--The term ``production 
                facility'' has the meaning given the term in section 11 
                of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2014).
                    (C) Retired fossil fuel site.--The term ``retired 
                fossil fuel site'' means the site of 1 or more fossil 
                fuel electric generation facilities that are retired or 
                scheduled to retire, including multi-unit facilities 
                that are partially shut down.
                    (D) Utilization facility.--The term ``utilization 
                facility'' has the meaning given the term in section 11 
                of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2014).
            (2) Identification of regulatory issues.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Commission shall 
                evaluate the extent to which modification of 
                regulations, guidance, or policy is needed to enable 
                timely licensing reviews for, and to support the 
                oversight of, production facilities or utilization 
                facilities at brownfield sites.
                    (B) Requirement.--In carrying out subparagraph (A), 
                the Commission shall consider how licensing reviews for 
                production facilities or utilization facilities at 
                brownfield sites may be expedited by considering 
                matters relating to siting and operating a production 
                facility or a utilization facility at or near a retired 
                fossil fuel site to support--
                            (i) the reuse of existing site 
                        infrastructure, including--
                                    (I) electric switchyard components 
                                and transmission infrastructure;
                                    (II) heat-sink components;
                                    (III) steam cycle components;
                                    (IV) roads;
                                    (V) railroad access; and
                                    (VI) water availability;
                            (ii) the use of early site permits;
                            (iii) the utilization of plant parameter 
                        envelopes or similar standardized site 
                        parameters on a portion of a larger site; and
                            (iv) the use of a standardized application 
                        for similar sites.
                    (C) Report.--Not later than 14 months after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Commission shall 
                submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
                report describing any regulations, guidance, and 
                policies identified under subparagraph (A).
            (3) Licensing.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Commission shall--
                            (i) develop and implement strategies to 
                        enable timely licensing reviews for, and to 
                        support the oversight of, production facilities 
                        or utilization facilities at brownfield sites, 
                        including retired fossil fuel sites; or
                            (ii) initiate a rulemaking to enable timely 
                        licensing reviews for, and to support the 
                        oversight of, of production facilities or 
                        utilization facilities at brownfield sites, 
                        including retired fossil fuel sites.
                    (B) Requirements.--In carrying out subparagraph 
                (A), consistent with the mission of the Commission, the 
                Commission shall consider matters relating to--
                            (i) the use of existing site 
                        infrastructure;
                            (ii) existing emergency preparedness 
                        organizations and planning;
                            (iii) the availability of historical site-
                        specific environmental data;
                            (iv) previously approved environmental 
                        reviews required by the National Environmental 
                        Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.);
                            (v) activities associated with the 
                        potential decommissioning of facilities or 
                        decontamination and remediation at brownfield 
                        sites; and
                            (vi) community engagement and historical 
                        experience with energy production.
            (4) Report.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Commission shall submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress a report describing the 
        actions taken by the Commission under paragraph (3).
    (l) Appalachian Regional Commission Nuclear Energy Development.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter I of chapter 145 of subtitle IV 
        of title 40, United States Code, is amended by adding at the 
        end the following:
``Sec. 14512. Appalachian Regional Commission nuclear energy 
              development
    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Brownfield site.--The term `brownfield site' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 101 of the Comprehensive 
        Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 
        (42 U.S.C. 9601).
            ``(2) Production facility.--The term `production facility' 
        has the meaning given the term in section 11 of the Atomic 
        Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2014).
            ``(3) Retired fossil fuel site.--The term `retired fossil 
        fuel site' means the site of 1 or more fossil fuel electric 
        generation facilities that are retired or scheduled to retire, 
        including multi-unit facilities that are partially shut down.
            ``(4) Utilization facility.--The term `utilization 
        facility' has the meaning given the term in section 11 of the 
        Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2014).
    ``(b) Authority.--The Appalachian Regional Commission may provide 
technical assistance to, make grants to, enter into contracts with, or 
otherwise provide amounts to individuals or entities in the Appalachian 
region for projects and activities--
            ``(1) to conduct research and analysis regarding the 
        economic impact of siting, constructing, and operating a 
        production facility or a utilization facility at a brownfield 
        site, including a retired fossil fuel site;
            ``(2) to assist with workforce training or retraining to 
        perform activities relating to the siting and operation of a 
        production facility or a utilization facility at a brownfield 
        site, including a retired fossil fuel site; and
            ``(3) to engage with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the 
        Department of Energy, and other Federal agencies with expertise 
        in civil nuclear energy.
    ``(c) Limitation on Available Amounts.--Of the cost of any project 
or activity eligible for a grant under this section--
            ``(1) except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3), not 
        more than 50 percent may be provided from amounts made 
        available to carry out this section;
            ``(2) in the case of a project or activity to be carried 
        out in a county for which a distressed county designation is in 
        effect under section 14526, not more than 80 percent may be 
        provided from amounts made available to carry out this section; 
        and
            ``(3) in the case of a project or activity to be carried 
        out in a county for which an at-risk county designation is in 
        effect under section 14526, not more than 70 percent may be 
        provided from amounts made available to carry out this section.
    ``(d) Sources of Assistance.--Subject to subsection (c), a grant 
provided under this section may be provided from amounts made available 
to carry out this section, in combination with amounts made available--
            ``(1) under any other Federal program; or
            ``(2) from any other source.
    ``(e) Federal Share.--Notwithstanding any provision of law limiting 
the Federal share under any other Federal program, amounts made 
available to carry out this section may be used to increase that 
Federal share, as the Appalachian Regional Commission determines to be 
appropriate.''.
            (2) Authorization of appropriations.--Section 14703 of 
        title 40, United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as 
                subsections (f) and (g), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after subsection (d) the 
                following:
    ``(e) Appalachian Regional Commission Nuclear Energy Development.--
Of the amounts made available under subsection (a), $5,000,000 may be 
used to carry out section 14512 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 
2026.''.
            (3) Clerical amendment.--The analysis for subchapter I of 
        chapter 145 of subtitle IV of title 40, United States Code, is 
        amended by striking the item relating to section 14511 and 
        inserting the following:

``14511. Appalachian regional energy hub initiative.
``14512. Appalachian Regional Commission nuclear energy development.''.
    (m) Foreign Ownership.--
            (1) In general.--The prohibitions against issuing certain 
        licenses for utilization facilities to certain corporations and 
        other entities described in the second sentence of section 103 
        d. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2133(d)) and the 
        second sentence of section 104 d. of that Act (42 U.S.C. 
        2134(d)) shall not apply to an entity described in paragraph 
        (2) if the Commission determines that issuance of the 
        applicable license to that entity is not inimical to--
                    (A) the common defense and security; or
                    (B) the health and safety of the public.
            (2) Entities described.--
                    (A) In general.--An entity referred to in paragraph 
                (1) is a corporation or other entity that is owned, 
                controlled, or dominated by--
                            (i) the government of--
                                    (I) a country that is a member of 
                                the Organisation for Economic Co-
                                operation and Development on the date 
                                of enactment of this Act, subject to 
                                subparagraph (B); or
                                    (II) the Republic of India;
                            (ii) a corporation that is incorporated in 
                        a country described in subclause (I) or (II) of 
                        clause (i); or
                            (iii) an alien who is a national of a 
                        country described in subclause (I) or (II) of 
                        clause (i).
                    (B) Exclusion.--An entity described in subparagraph 
                (A)(i)(I) is not an entity referred to in paragraph 
                (1), and paragraph (1) shall not apply to that entity, 
                if, on the date of enactment of this Act--
                            (i) the entity (or any department, agency, 
                        or instrumentality of the entity) is a person 
                        subject to sanctions under section 231 of the 
                        Countering America's Adversaries Through 
                        Sanctions Act (22 U.S.C. 9525); or
                            (ii) any citizen of the entity, or any 
                        entity organized under the laws of, or 
                        otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of, the 
                        entity, is a person subject to sanctions under 
                        that section.
            (3) Technical amendment.--Section 103 d. of the Atomic 
        Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2133(d)) is amended, in the 
        second sentence, by striking ``any any'' and inserting ``any''.
            (4) Savings clause.--Nothing in this subsection affects the 
        requirements of section 721 of the Defense Production Act of 
        1950 (50 U.S.C. 4565).
    (n) Extension of the Price-Anderson Act.--
            (1) Extension.--Section 170 of the Atomic Energy Act of 
        1954 (42 U.S.C. 2210) (commonly known as the ``Price-Anderson 
        Act'') is amended by striking ``December 31, 2025'' each place 
        it appears and inserting ``December 31, 2045''.
            (2) Liability.--Section 170 of the Atomic Energy Act of 
        1954 (42 U.S.C. 2210) (commonly known as the ``Price-Anderson 
        Act'') is amended--
                    (A) in subsection d. (5), by striking 
                ``$500,000,000'' and inserting ``$2,000,000,000''; and
                    (B) in subsection e. (4), by striking 
                ``$500,000,000'' and inserting ``$2,000,000,000''.
            (3) Report.--Section 170 p. of the Atomic Energy Act of 
        1954 (42 U.S.C. 2210(p)) (commonly known as the ``Price-
        Anderson Act'') is amended by striking ``December 31, 2021'' 
        and inserting ``December 31, 2041''.
            (4) Definition of nuclear incident.--Section 11 q. of the 
        Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2014(q)) is amended, in 
        the second proviso, by striking ``if such occurrence'' and all 
        that follows through ``United States:'' and inserting a colon.
    (o) Report on Advanced Methods of Manufacturing and Construction 
for Nuclear Energy Applications.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Commission shall submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress a report (referred to in 
        this subsection as the ``report'') on manufacturing and 
        construction for nuclear energy applications.
            (2) Stakeholder input.--In developing the report, the 
        Commission shall seek input from--
                    (A) the Secretary of Energy;
                    (B) the nuclear energy industry;
                    (C) National Laboratories;
                    (D) institutions of higher education;
                    (E) nuclear and manufacturing technology 
                developers;
                    (F) the manufacturing and construction industries, 
                including manufacturing and construction companies with 
                operating facilities in the United States;
                    (G) standards development organizations;
                    (H) labor unions;
                    (I) nongovernmental organizations; and
                    (J) other public stakeholders.
            (3) Contents.--
                    (A) In general.--The report shall--
                            (i) examine any unique licensing issues or 
                        requirements relating to the use of 
                        innovative--
                                    (I) advanced manufacturing 
                                processes;
                                    (II) advanced construction 
                                techniques; and
                                    (III) rapid improvement or 
                                iterative innovation processes;
                            (ii) examine--
                                    (I) the requirements for nuclear-
                                grade components in manufacturing and 
                                construction for nuclear energy 
                                applications;
                                    (II) opportunities to use standard 
                                materials, parts, or components in 
                                manufacturing and construction for 
                                nuclear energy applications;
                                    (III) opportunities to use standard 
                                materials that are in compliance with 
                                existing codes to provide acceptable 
                                approaches to support or encapsulate 
                                new materials that do not yet have 
                                applicable codes; and
                                    (IV) requirements relating to the 
                                transport of a fueled advanced nuclear 
                                reactor core from a manufacturing 
                                licensee to a licensee that holds a 
                                license to construct and operate a 
                                facility at a particular site;
                            (iii) identify any safety aspects of 
                        innovative advanced manufacturing processes and 
                        advanced construction techniques that are not 
                        addressed by existing codes and standards, so 
                        that generic guidance may be updated or 
                        created, as necessary;
                            (iv) identify options for addressing the 
                        issues, requirements, and opportunities 
                        examined under clauses (i) and (ii)--
                                    (I) within the existing regulatory 
                                framework; or
                                    (II) through a new rulemaking;
                            (v) identify how addressing the issues, 
                        requirements, and opportunities examined under 
                        clauses (i) and (ii) will impact opportunities 
                        for domestic nuclear manufacturing and 
                        construction developers; and
                            (vi) describe the extent to which 
                        Commission action is needed to implement any 
                        matter described in the report.
                    (B) Cost estimates, budgets, and timeframes.--The 
                report shall include cost estimates, proposed budgets, 
                and proposed timeframes for implementing risk-informed 
                and performance-based regulatory guidance for 
                manufacturing and construction for nuclear energy 
                applications.
    (p) Nuclear Energy Traineeship.--Section 313 of division C of the 
Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009 (42 U.S.C. 16274a), is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``Nuclear Regulatory'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(1), in the matter preceding 
        subparagraph (A), by inserting ``and subsection (c)'' after 
        ``paragraph (2)'';
            (3) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph 
                (5); and
                    (B) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the 
                following:
            ``(1) Advanced nuclear reactor.--The term `advanced nuclear 
        reactor' has the meaning given the term in section 951(b) of 
        the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16271(b)).
            ``(2) Commission.--The term `Commission' means the Nuclear 
        Regulatory Commission.
            ``(3) Institution of higher education.--The term 
        `institution of higher education' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 2 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 
        15801).
            ``(4) National laboratory.--The term `National Laboratory' 
        has the meaning given the term in section 951(b) of the Energy 
        Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16271(b)).'';
            (4) in subsection (d)(2), by striking ``Nuclear 
        Regulatory'';
            (5) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections 
        (d) and (e), respectively; and
            (6) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
    ``(c) Nuclear Energy Traineeship Subprogram.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Commission shall establish, as a 
        subprogram of the Program, a nuclear energy traineeship 
        subprogram under which the Commission, in coordination with 
        institutions of higher education and trade schools, shall 
        competitively award traineeships that provide focused training 
        to meet critical mission needs of the Commission and nuclear 
        workforce needs, including needs relating to the nuclear 
        tradecraft workforce.
            ``(2) Requirements.--In carrying out the nuclear energy 
        traineeship subprogram described in paragraph (1), the 
        Commission shall--
                    ``(A) coordinate with the Secretary of Energy to 
                prioritize the funding of traineeships that focus on--
                            ``(i) nuclear workforce needs; and
                            ``(ii) critical mission needs of the 
                        Commission;
                    ``(B) encourage appropriate partnerships among--
                            ``(i) National Laboratories;
                            ``(ii) institutions of higher education;
                            ``(iii) trade schools;
                            ``(iv) the nuclear energy industry; and
                            ``(v) other entities, as the Commission 
                        determines to be appropriate; and
                    ``(C) on an annual basis, evaluate nuclear 
                workforce needs for the purpose of implementing 
                traineeships in focused topical areas that--
                            ``(i) address the workforce needs of the 
                        nuclear energy community; and
                            ``(ii) support critical mission needs of 
                        the Commission.''.
    (q) Report on Commission Readiness and Capacity to License 
Additional Conversion and Enrichment Capacity to Reduce Reliance on 
Uranium From Russia.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Commission shall submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress, the Committee on Foreign 
        Relations of the Senate, the Committee on Energy and Natural 
        Resources of the Senate, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs 
        of the House of Representatives a report on the readiness and 
        capacity of the Commission to license additional conversion and 
        enrichment capacity at existing and new fuel cycle facilities 
        to reduce reliance on nuclear fuel that is recovered, 
        converted, enriched, or fabricated by an entity that--
                    (A) is owned or controlled by the Government of the 
                Russian Federation; or
                    (B) is organized under the laws of, or otherwise 
                subject to the jurisdiction of, the Russian Federation.
            (2) Contents.--The report required under paragraph (1) 
        shall analyze how the capacity of the Commission to license 
        additional conversion and enrichment capacity at existing and 
        new fuel cycle facilities may conflict with or restrict the 
        readiness of the Commission to review advanced nuclear reactor 
        applications.
    (r) Annual Report on the Spent Nuclear Fuel and High-level 
Radioactive Waste Inventory in the United States.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) High-level radioactive waste.--The term ``high-
                level radioactive waste'' has the meaning given the 
                term in section 2 of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 
                1982 (42 U.S.C. 10101).
                    (B) Spent nuclear fuel.--The term ``spent nuclear 
                fuel'' has the meaning given the term in section 2 of 
                the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (42 U.S.C. 10101).
                    (C) Standard contract.--The term ``standard 
                contract'' has the meaning given the term ``contract'' 
                in section 961.3 of title 10, Code of Federal 
                Regulations (or a successor regulation).
            (2) Report.--Not later than January 1, 2025, and annually 
        thereafter, the Secretary of Energy shall submit to Congress a 
        report that describes--
                    (A) the annual and cumulative amount of payments 
                made by the United States to the holder of a standard 
                contract due to a partial breach of contract under the 
                Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (42 U.S.C. 10101 et 
                seq.) resulting in financial damages to the holder;
                    (B) the cumulative amount spent by the Department 
                of Energy since fiscal year 2008 to reduce future 
                payments projected to be made by the United States to 
                any holder of a standard contract due to a partial 
                breach of contract under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act 
                of 1982 (42 U.S.C. 10101 et seq.);
                    (C) the cumulative amount spent by the Department 
                of Energy to store, manage, and dispose of spent 
                nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste in the 
                United States as of the date of the report;
                    (D) the projected lifecycle costs to store, manage, 
                transport, and dispose of the projected inventory of 
                spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste in 
                the United States, including spent nuclear fuel and 
                high-level radioactive waste expected to be generated 
                from existing reactors through 2050;
                    (E) any mechanisms for better accounting of 
                liabilities for the lifecycle costs of the spent 
                nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste inventory 
                in the United States;
                    (F) any recommendations for improving the methods 
                used by the Department of Energy for the accounting of 
                spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste 
                costs and liabilities;
                    (G) any actions taken in the previous fiscal year 
                by the Department of Energy with respect to interim 
                storage; and
                    (H) any activities taken in the previous fiscal 
                year by the Department of Energy to develop and deploy 
                nuclear technologies and fuels that enhance the safe 
                transportation or storage of spent nuclear fuel or 
                high-level radioactive waste, including technologies to 
                protect against seismic, flooding, and other extreme 
                weather events.
    (s) Authorization of Appropriations for Superfund Actions at 
Abandoned Mining Sites on Tribal Land.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Eligible non-NPL site.--The term ``eligible 
                non-NPL site'' means a site--
                            (i) that is not on the National Priorities 
                        List; but
                            (ii) with respect to which the 
                        Administrator determines that--
                                    (I) the site would be eligible for 
                                listing on the National Priorities List 
                                based on the presence of hazards from 
                                contamination at the site, applying the 
                                hazard ranking system described in 
                                section 105(c) of the Comprehensive 
                                Environmental Response, Compensation, 
                                and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 
                                9605(c)); and
                                    (II) for removal site evaluations, 
                                engineering evaluations/cost analyses, 
                                remedial planning activities, remedial 
                                investigations and feasibility studies, 
                                and other actions taken pursuant to 
                                section 104(b) of that Act (42 U.S.C. 
                                9604), the site--
                                            (aa) has undergone a pre-
                                        CERCLA screening; and
                                            (bb) is included in the 
                                        Superfund Enterprise Management 
                                        System.
                    (B) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian Tribe'' has 
                the meaning given the term in section 4 of the Indian 
                Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 
                U.S.C. 5304).
                    (C) National priorities list.--The term ``National 
                Priorities List'' means the National Priorities List 
                developed by the President in accordance with section 
                105(a)(8)(B) of the Comprehensive Environmental 
                Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 
                U.S.C. 9605(a)(8)(B)).
                    (D) Remedial action; removal; response.--The terms 
                ``remedial action'', ``removal'', and ``response'' have 
                the meanings given those terms in section 101 of the 
                Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
                Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601).
                    (E) Tribal land.--The term ``Tribal land'' has the 
                meaning given the term ``Indian country'' in section 
                1151 of title 18, United States Code.
            (2) Authorization of appropriations.--There are authorized 
        to be appropriated for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2032, 
        to remain available until expended--
                    (A) $97,000,000 to the Administrator to carry out 
                this subsection (except for paragraph (4)); and
                    (B) $3,000,000 to the Administrator of the Agency 
                for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry to carry out 
                paragraph (4).
            (3) Uses of amounts.--Amounts appropriated under paragraph 
        (2)(A) shall be used by the Administrator--
                    (A) to carry out removal actions on abandoned mine 
                land located on Tribal land;
                    (B) to carry out response actions, including 
                removal and remedial planning activities, removal and 
                remedial studies, remedial actions, and other actions 
                taken pursuant to section 104(b) of the Comprehensive 
                Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act 
                of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9604(b)) on abandoned mine land 
                located on Tribal land at--
                            (i) eligible non-NPL sites; and
                            (ii) sites listed on the National 
                        Priorities List; and
                    (C) to make grants under paragraph (5).
            (4) Health assessments.--Subject to the availability of 
        appropriations, the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease 
        Registry, in coordination with Tribal health authorities, shall 
        perform 1 or more health assessments at each eligible non-NPL 
        site that is located on Tribal land, in accordance with section 
        104(i)(6) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
        Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9604(i)(6)).
            (5) Tribal grants.--
                    (A) In general.--The Administrator may use amounts 
                appropriated under paragraph (2)(A) to make grants to 
                eligible entities described in subparagraph (B) for the 
                purposes described in subparagraph (C).
                    (B) Eligible entities described.--An eligible 
                entity referred to in subparagraph (A) is--
                            (i) the governing body of an Indian Tribe; 
                        or
                            (ii) a legally established organization of 
                        Indians that--
                                    (I) is controlled, sanctioned, or 
                                chartered by the governing bodies of 2 
                                or more Indian Tribes to be served, or 
                                that is democratically elected by the 
                                adult members of the Indian community 
                                to be served, by that organization; and
                                    (II) includes the maximum 
                                participation of Indians in all phases 
                                of the activities of that organization.
                    (C) Use of grant funds.--A grant under this 
                paragraph shall be used--
                            (i) in accordance with the second sentence 
                        of section 117(e)(1) of the Comprehensive 
                        Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
                        Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9617(e)(1));
                            (ii) for obtaining technical assistance in 
                        carrying out response actions under clause 
                        (iii); or
                            (iii) for carrying out response actions, if 
                        the Administrator determines that the Indian 
                        Tribe has the capability to carry out any or 
                        all of those response actions in accordance 
                        with the criteria and priorities established 
                        pursuant to section 105(a)(8) of the 
                        Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
                        Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 
                        U.S.C. 9605(a)(8)).
                    (D) Applications.--An eligible entity desiring a 
                grant under this paragraph shall submit to the 
                Administrator an application at such time, in such 
                manner, and containing such information as the 
                Administrator may require.
                    (E) Limitations.--A grant under this paragraph 
                shall be governed by the rules, procedures, and 
                limitations described in section 117(e)(2) of the 
                Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
                Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9617(e)(2)), except 
                that--
                            (i) ``Administrator of the Environmental 
                        Protection Agency'' shall be substituted for 
                        ``President'' each place it appears in that 
                        section; and
                            (ii) in the first sentence of that section, 
                        ``under subsection (s) of the ADVANCE Act of 
                        2023'' shall be substituted for ``under this 
                        subsection''.
            (6) Statute of limitations.--If a remedial action described 
        in paragraph (3)(B) is scheduled at an eligible non-NPL site, 
        no action may be commenced for damages (as defined in section 
        101 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, 
        and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601)) with respect to 
        that eligible non-NPL site unless the action is commenced 
        within the timeframe provided for such actions with respect to 
        facilities on the National Priorities List in the first 
        sentence of the matter following subparagraph (B) of section 
        113(g)(1) of that Act (42 U.S.C. 9613(g)(1)).
            (7) Coordination.--The Administrator shall coordinate with 
        the Indian Tribe on whose land the applicable site is located 
        in--
                    (A) selecting and prioritizing sites for response 
                actions under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph 
                (3); and
                    (B) carrying out those response actions.
    (t) Development, Qualification, and Licensing of Advanced Nuclear 
Fuel Concepts.--
            (1) In general.--The Commission shall establish an 
        initiative to enhance preparedness and coordination with 
        respect to the qualification and licensing of advanced nuclear 
        fuel.
            (2) Agency coordination.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Commission and the Secretary 
        of Energy shall enter into a memorandum of understanding--
                    (A) to share technical expertise and knowledge 
                through--
                            (i) enabling the testing and demonstration 
                        of accident tolerant fuels for existing 
                        commercial nuclear reactors and advanced 
                        nuclear reactor fuel concepts to be proposed 
                        and funded, in whole or in part, by the private 
                        sector;
                            (ii) operating a database to store and 
                        share data and knowledge relevant to nuclear 
                        science and engineering between Federal 
                        agencies and the private sector;
                            (iii) leveraging expertise with respect to 
                        safety analysis and research relating to 
                        advanced nuclear fuel; and
                            (iv) enabling technical staff to actively 
                        observe and learn about technologies, with an 
                        emphasis on identification of additional 
                        information needed with respect to advanced 
                        nuclear fuel; and
                    (B) to ensure that--
                            (i) the Department of Energy has sufficient 
                        technical expertise to support the timely 
                        research, development, demonstration, and 
                        commercial application of advanced nuclear 
                        fuel;
                            (ii) the Commission has sufficient 
                        technical expertise to support the evaluation 
                        of applications for licenses, permits, and 
                        design certifications and other requests for 
                        regulatory approval for advanced nuclear fuel;
                            (iii)(I) the Department of Energy maintains 
                        and develops the facilities necessary to enable 
                        the timely research, development, 
                        demonstration, and commercial application by 
                        the civilian nuclear industry of advanced 
                        nuclear fuel; and
                            (II) the Commission has access to the 
                        facilities described in subclause (I), as 
                        needed; and
                            (iv) the Commission consults, as 
                        appropriate, with the modeling and simulation 
                        experts at the Office of Nuclear Energy of the 
                        Department of Energy, at the National 
                        Laboratories, and within industry fuel vendor 
                        teams in cooperative agreements with the 
                        Department of Energy to leverage physics-based 
                        computer modeling and simulation capabilities.
            (3) Report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Commission shall 
                submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
                report describing the efforts of the Commission under 
                paragraph (1), including--
                            (i) an assessment of the preparedness of 
                        the Commission to review and qualify for use--
                                    (I) accident tolerant fuel;
                                    (II) ceramic cladding materials;
                                    (III) fuels containing silicon 
                                carbide;
                                    (IV) high-assay, low-enriched 
                                uranium fuels;
                                    (V) molten-salt based liquid fuels;
                                    (VI) fuels derived from spent 
                                nuclear fuel or depleted uranium; and
                                    (VII) other related fuel concepts, 
                                as determined by the Commission;
                            (ii) activities planned or undertaken under 
                        the memorandum of understanding described in 
                        paragraph (2);
                            (iii) an accounting of the areas of 
                        research needed with respect to advanced 
                        nuclear fuel; and
                            (iv) any other challenges or considerations 
                        identified by the Commission.
                    (B) Consultation.--In developing the report under 
                subparagraph (A), the Commission shall seek input 
                from--
                            (i) the Secretary of Energy;
                            (ii) National Laboratories;
                            (iii) the nuclear energy industry;
                            (iv) technology developers;
                            (v) nongovernmental organizations; and
                            (vi) other public stakeholders.
    (u) Commission Workforce.--
            (1) Definition of chairman.--In this subsection, the term 
        ``Chairman'' means the Chairman of the Commission.
            (2) Hiring bonus and appointment authority.--
                    (A) In general.--Notwithstanding section 161 d. of 
                the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2201(d)), any 
                provision of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1980 (94 
                Stat. 3585; 5 U.S.C. app.), and any provision of title 
                5, United States Code, governing appointments and 
                General Schedule classification and pay rates, the 
                Chairman may, subject to the limitations described in 
                subparagraph (C), and without regard to the civil 
                service laws--
                            (i) establish the positions described in 
                        subparagraph (B); and
                            (ii) appoint persons to the positions 
                        established under clause (i).
                    (B) Positions described.--The positions referred to 
                in subparagraph (A)(i) are--
                            (i) permanent or term-limited positions 
                        with highly specialized scientific, 
                        engineering, and technical competencies to 
                        address a critical licensing or regulatory 
                        oversight need for the Commission, including--
                                    (I) health physicist;
                                    (II) reactor operations engineer;
                                    (III) human factors analyst or 
                                engineer;
                                    (IV) risk and reliability analyst 
                                or engineer;
                                    (V) licensing project manager;
                                    (VI) reactor engineer for severe 
                                accidents;
                                    (VII) geotechnical engineer;
                                    (VIII) structural engineer;
                                    (IX) reactor systems engineer;
                                    (X) reactor engineer;
                                    (XI) radiation scientist;
                                    (XII) seismic engineer; and
                                    (XIII) electronics engineer; or
                            (ii) permanent or term-limited positions to 
                        be filled by exceptionally well-qualified 
                        individuals that the Chairman, subject to 
                        paragraph (5), determines are necessary to 
                        fulfill the mission of the Commission.
                    (C) Limitations.--
                            (i) In general.--Appointments under 
                        subparagraph (A)(ii) may be made to not more 
                        than--
                                    (I)(aa) 15 permanent positions 
                                described in subparagraph (B)(i) during 
                                fiscal year 2024; and
                                    (bb) 10 permanent positions 
                                described in subparagraph (B)(i) during 
                                each fiscal year thereafter;
                                    (II)(aa) 15 term-limited positions 
                                described in subparagraph (B)(i) during 
                                fiscal year 2024; and
                                    (bb) 10 term-limited positions 
                                described in subparagraph (B)(i) during 
                                each fiscal year thereafter;
                                    (III)(aa) 15 permanent positions 
                                described in subparagraph (B)(ii) 
                                during fiscal year 2024; and
                                    (bb) 10 permanent positions 
                                described in subparagraph (B)(ii) 
                                during each fiscal year thereafter; and
                                    (IV)(aa) 15 term-limited positions 
                                described in subparagraph (B)(ii) 
                                during fiscal year 2024; and
                                    (bb) 10 term-limited positions 
                                described in subparagraph (B)(ii) 
                                during each fiscal year thereafter.
                            (ii) Term of term-limited appointment.--If 
                        a person is appointed to a term-limited 
                        position described in clause (i) or (ii) of 
                        subparagraph (B), the term of that appointment 
                        shall not exceed 4 years.
                            (iii) Staff positions.--Subject to 
                        paragraph (5), appointments made to positions 
                        established under this paragraph shall be to a 
                        range of staff positions that are of entry, 
                        mid, and senior levels, to the extent 
                        practicable.
                    (D) Hiring bonus.--The Commission may pay a person 
                appointed under subparagraph (A) a 1-time hiring bonus 
                in an amount not to exceed the least of--
                            (i) $25,000;
                            (ii) the amount equal to 15 percent of the 
                        annual rate of basic pay of the employee; and
                            (iii) the amount of the limitation that is 
                        applicable for a calendar year under section 
                        5307(a)(1) of title 5, United States Code.
            (3) Compensation and appointment authority.--
                    (A) In general.--Notwithstanding section 161 d. of 
                the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2201(d)), any 
                provision of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1980 (94 
                Stat. 3585; 5 U.S.C. app.), and chapter 51, and 
                subchapter III of chapter 53, of title 5, United States 
                Code, the Chairman, subject to the limitations 
                described in subparagraph (C) and without regard to the 
                civil service laws, may--
                            (i) establish and fix the rates of basic 
                        pay for the positions described in subparagraph 
                        (B); and
                            (ii) appoint persons to the positions 
                        established under clause (i).
                    (B) Positions described.--The positions referred to 
                in subparagraph (A)(i) are--
                            (i) positions with highly specialized 
                        scientific, engineering, and technical 
                        competencies to address a critical need for the 
                        Commission, including--
                                    (I) health physicist;
                                    (II) reactor operations engineer;
                                    (III) human factors analyst or 
                                engineer;
                                    (IV) risk and reliability analyst 
                                or engineer;
                                    (V) licensing project manager;
                                    (VI) reactor engineer for severe 
                                accidents;
                                    (VII) geotechnical engineer;
                                    (VIII) structural engineer;
                                    (IX) reactor systems engineer;
                                    (X) reactor engineer;
                                    (XI) radiation scientist;
                                    (XII) seismic engineer; and
                                    (XIII) electronics engineer; or
                            (ii) positions to be filled by 
                        exceptionally well-qualified persons that the 
                        Chairman, subject to paragraph (5), determines 
                        are necessary to fulfill the mission of the 
                        Commission.
                    (C) Limitations.--
                            (i) In general.--The annual rate of basic 
                        pay for a position described in subparagraph 
                        (B) may not exceed the per annum rate of salary 
                        payable for level III of the Executive Schedule 
                        under section 5314 of title 5, United States 
                        Code.
                            (ii) Number of positions.--Appointments 
                        under subparagraph (A)(ii) may be made to not 
                        more than--
                                    (I) 10 positions described in 
                                subparagraph (B)(i) per fiscal year, 
                                not to exceed a total of 50 positions; 
                                and
                                    (II) 10 positions described in 
                                subparagraph (B)(ii) per fiscal year, 
                                not to exceed a total of 50 positions.
                    (D) Performance bonus.--
                            (i) In general.--Subject to clauses (ii) 
                        and (iii), an employee may be paid a 1-time 
                        performance bonus in an amount not to exceed 
                        the least of--
                                    (I) $25,000;
                                    (II) the amount equal to 15 percent 
                                of the annual rate of basic pay of the 
                                person; and
                                    (III) the amount of the limitation 
                                that is applicable for a calendar year 
                                under section 5307(a)(1) of title 5, 
                                United States Code.
                            (ii) Performance.--Any 1-time performance 
                        bonus under clause (i) shall be made to a 
                        person who demonstrated exceptional performance 
                        in the applicable fiscal year, including--
                                    (I) leading a project team in a 
                                timely, efficient, and predictable 
                                licensing review to enable the safe use 
                                of nuclear technology;
                                    (II) making significant 
                                contributions to a timely, efficient, 
                                and predictable licensing review to 
                                enable the safe use of nuclear 
                                technology;
                                    (III) the resolution of novel or 
                                first-of-a-kind regulatory issues;
                                    (IV) developing or implementing 
                                licensing or regulatory oversight 
                                processes to improve the effectiveness 
                                of the Commission; and
                                    (V) other performance, as 
                                determined by the Chairman, subject to 
                                paragraph (5).
                            (iii) Limitations.--The Commission may pay 
                        a 1-time performance bonus under clause (i) for 
                        not more than 15 persons per fiscal year, and a 
                        person who receives a 1-time performance bonus 
                        under that clause may not receive another 1-
                        time performance bonus under that clause for a 
                        period of 5 years thereafter.
            (4) Annual solicitation for nuclear regulator 
        apprenticeship network applications.--The Chairman, on an 
        annual basis, shall solicit applications for the Nuclear 
        Regulator Apprenticeship Network.
            (5) Application of merit system principles.--To the maximum 
        extent practicable, appointments under paragraphs (2)(A) and 
        (3)(A) and any 1-time performance bonus under paragraph (3)(D) 
        shall be made in accordance with the merit system principles 
        set forth in section 2301 of title 5, United States Code.
            (6) Delegation.--Pursuant to Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 
        1980 (94 Stat. 3585; 5 U.S.C. app.), the Chairman shall 
        delegate, subject to the direction and supervision of the 
        Chairman, the authority provided by paragraphs (2), (3), and 
        (4) to the Executive Director for Operations of the Commission.
            (7) Annual report.--The Commission shall include in the 
        annual budget justification of the Commission--
                    (A) information that describes--
                            (i) the total number of and the positions 
                        of the persons appointed under the authority 
                        provided by paragraph (2);
                            (ii) the total number of and the positions 
                        of the persons paid at the rate determined 
                        under the authority provided by paragraph 
                        (3)(A);
                            (iii) the total number of and the positions 
                        of the persons paid a 1-time performance bonus 
                        under the authority provided by paragraph 
                        (3)(D);
                            (iv) how the authority provided by 
                        paragraphs (2) and (3) is being used, and has 
                        been used during the previous fiscal year, to 
                        address the hiring and retention needs of the 
                        Commission with respect to the positions 
                        described in those subsections to which that 
                        authority is applicable;
                            (v) if the authority provided by paragraphs 
                        (2) and (3) is not being used, or has not been 
                        used, the reasons, including a justification, 
                        for not using that authority; and
                            (vi) the attrition levels with respect to 
                        the term-limited appointments made under 
                        paragraph (2), including, with respect to 
                        persons leaving a position before completion of 
                        the applicable term of service, the average 
                        length of service as a percentage of the term 
                        of service;
                    (B) an assessment of--
                            (i) the current critical workforce needs of 
                        the Commission, including any critical 
                        workforce needs that the Commission anticipates 
                        in the subsequent 5 fiscal years; and
                            (ii) further skillsets that are or will be 
                        needed for the Commission to fulfill the 
                        licensing and oversight responsibilities of the 
                        Commission; and
                    (C) the plans of the Commission to assess, develop, 
                and implement updated staff performance standards, 
                training procedures, and schedules.
            (8) Report on attrition and effectiveness.--Not later than 
        September 30, 2032, the Commission shall submit to the 
        Committees on Appropriations and Environment and Public Works 
        of the Senate and the Committees on Appropriations and Energy 
        and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report that--
                    (A) describes the attrition levels with respect to 
                the term-limited appointments made under paragraph (2), 
                including, with respect to persons leaving a position 
                before completion of the applicable term of service, 
                the average length of service as a percentage of the 
                term of service;
                    (B) provides the views of the Commission on the 
                effectiveness of the authorities provided by paragraphs 
                (2) and (3) in helping the Commission fulfill the 
                mission of the Commission; and
                    (C) makes recommendations with respect to whether 
                the authorities provided by paragraphs (2) and (3) 
                should be continued, modified, or discontinued.
    (v) Commission Corporate Support Funding.--
            (1) Report.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Commission shall submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress and make publicly available 
        a report that describes--
                    (A) the progress on the implementation of section 
                102(a)(3) of the Nuclear Energy Innovation and 
                Modernization Act (42 U.S.C. 2215(a)(3)); and
                    (B) whether the Commission is meeting and is 
                expected to meet the total budget authority caps 
                required for corporate support under that section.
            (2) Limitation on corporate support costs.--Section 
        102(a)(3) of the Nuclear Energy Innovation and Modernization 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 2215(a)(3)) is amended by striking subparagraphs 
        (B) and (C) and inserting the following:
                    ``(B) 30 percent for fiscal year 2024 and each 
                fiscal year thereafter.''.
            (3) Corporate support costs clarification.--Paragraph (9) 
        of section 3 of the Nuclear Energy Innovation and Modernization 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 2215 note; Public Law 115-439) (as redesignated 
        by subsection (f)(1)(A)) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``The term'' and inserting the 
                following:
                    ``(A) In general.--The term''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) Exclusions.--The term `corporate support 
                costs' does not include--
                            ``(i) costs for rent and utilities relating 
                        to any and all space in the Three White Flint 
                        North building that is not occupied by the 
                        Commission; or
                            ``(ii) costs for salaries, travel, and 
                        other support for the Office of the 
                        Commission.''.
    (w) Performance and Reporting Update.--Section 102(c) of the 
Nuclear Energy Innovation and Modernization Act (42 U.S.C. 2215(c)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) in the paragraph heading, by striking ``180'' 
                and inserting ``90''; and
                    (B) by striking ``180'' and inserting ``90''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Periodic updates to metrics and schedules.--
                    ``(A) Review and assessment.--Not less frequently 
                than once every 3 years, the Commission shall review 
                and assess, based on the licensing and regulatory 
                activities of the Commission, the performance metrics 
                and milestone schedules established under paragraph 
                (1).
                    ``(B) Revisions.--After each review and assessment 
                under subparagraph (A), the Commission shall revise and 
                improve, as appropriate, the performance metrics and 
                milestone schedules described in that subparagraph to 
                provide the most efficient metrics and schedules 
                reasonably achievable.''.
    (x) Nuclear Closure Communities.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Community advisory board.--The term ``community 
                advisory board'' means a community committee or other 
                advisory organization that aims to foster communication 
                and information exchange between a licensee planning 
                for and involved in decommissioning activities and 
                members of the community that decommissioning 
                activities may affect.
                    (B) Decommission.--The term ``decommission'' has 
                the meaning given the term in section 50.2 of title 10, 
                Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations).
                    (C) Eligible recipient.--The term ``eligible 
                recipient'' has the meaning given the term in section 3 
                of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 
                1965 (42 U.S.C. 3122).
                    (D) Licensee.--The term ``licensee'' has the 
                meaning given the term in section 50.2 of title 10, 
                Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations).
                    (E) Nuclear closure community.--The term ``nuclear 
                closure community'' means a unit of local government, 
                including a county, city, town, village, school 
                district, or special district, that has been impacted, 
                or reasonably demonstrates to the satisfaction of the 
                Secretary that it will be impacted, by a nuclear power 
                plant licensed by the Commission that--
                            (i) is not co-located with an operating 
                        nuclear power plant;
                            (ii) is at a site with spent nuclear fuel; 
                        and
                            (iii) as of the date of enactment of this 
                        Act--
                                    (I) has ceased operations; or
                                    (II) has provided a written 
                                notification to the Commission that it 
                                will cease operations.
                    (F) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the 
                Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Assistant 
                Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development.
            (2) Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish a grant 
        program to provide grants to eligible recipients--
                    (A) to assist with economic development in nuclear 
                closure communities; and
                    (B) to fund community advisory boards in nuclear 
                closure communities.
            (3) Requirement.--In carrying out this subsection, to the 
        maximum extent practicable, the Secretary shall implement the 
        recommendations described in the report submitted to Congress 
        under section 108 of the Nuclear Energy Innovation and 
        Modernization Act (Public Law 115-439; 132 Stat. 5577) entitled 
        ``Best Practices for Establishment and Operation of Local 
        Community Advisory Boards Associated with Decommissioning 
        Activities at Nuclear Power Plants''.
            (4) Distribution of funds.--The Secretary shall establish a 
        formula to ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, 
        geographic diversity among grant recipients under this 
        subsection.
            (5) Authorization of appropriations.--
                    (A) In general.--There are authorized to be 
                appropriated to the Secretary--
                            (i) to carry out paragraph (2)(A), 
                        $35,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 
                        through 2028; and
                            (ii) to carry out paragraph (2)(B), 
                        $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 
                        through 2025.
                    (B) Availability.--Amounts made available under 
                this subsection shall remain available for a period of 
                5 years beginning on the date on which the amounts are 
                made available.
                    (C) No offset.--None of the funds made available 
                under this subsection may be used to offset the funding 
                for any other Federal program.
    (y) Technical Correction.--Section 104 c. of the Atomic Energy Act 
of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2134(c)) is amended--
            (1) by striking the third sentence and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(3) Limitation on utilization facilities.--The Commission 
        may issue a license under this section for a utilization 
        facility useful in the conduct of research and development 
        activities of the types specified in section 31 if--
                    ``(A) not more than 75 percent of the annual costs 
                to the licensee of owning and operating the facility 
                are devoted to the sale, other than for research and 
                development or education and training, of--
                            ``(i) nonenergy services;
                            ``(ii) energy; or
                            ``(iii) a combination of nonenergy services 
                        and energy; and
                    ``(B) not more than 50 percent of the annual costs 
                to the licensee of owning and operating the facility 
                are devoted to the sale of energy.'';
            (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``The Commission'' 
        and inserting the following:
            ``(2) Regulation.--The Commission''; and
            (3) by striking ``c. The Commission'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``c. Research and Development Activities.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the 
        Commission''.
    (z) Report on Engagement With the Government of Canada With Respect 
to Nuclear Waste Issues in the Great Lakes Basin.--Not later than 1 
year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Commission shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress, the Committee on 
Foreign Relations of the Senate, the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources of the Senate, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the 
House of Representatives a report describing any engagement between the 
Commission and the Government of Canada with respect to nuclear waste 
issues in the Great Lakes Basin.
    (aa) Savings Clause.--Nothing in this section affects authorities 
of the Department of State.

       DIVISION F--DEPARTMENT OF STATE AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2023

SEC. 6001. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This division may be cited as the ``Department of 
State Authorization Act of 2023''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this division is 
as follows:

       DIVISION F--DEPARTMENT OF STATE AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2023

Sec. 6001. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 6002. Definitions.
          TITLE LXI--DIPLOMATIC SECURITY AND CONSULAR AFFAIRS

Sec. 6101. Special hiring authority for passport services.
Sec. 6102. Quarterly report on passport wait times.
Sec. 6103. Passport travel advisories.
Sec. 6104. Strategy to ensure access to passport services for all 
                            Americans.
Sec. 6105. Strengthening the National Passport Information Center.
Sec. 6106. Strengthening passport customer visibility and transparency.
Sec. 6107. Annual Office of Authentications report.
Sec. 6108. Increased accountability in assignment restrictions and 
                            reviews.
Sec. 6109. Suitability reviews for Foreign Service Institute 
                            instructors.
Sec. 6110. Diplomatic security fellowship programs.
                     TITLE LXII--PERSONNEL MATTERS

             Subtitle A--Hiring, Promotion, and Development

Sec. 6201. Adjustment to promotion precepts.
Sec. 6202. Hiring authorities.
Sec. 6203. Extending paths to service for paid student interns.
Sec. 6204. Lateral Entry Program.
Sec. 6205. Mid-Career Mentoring Program.
Sec. 6206. Report on the Foreign Service Institute's language program .
Sec. 6207. Consideration of career civil servants as chiefs of 
                            missions.
Sec. 6208. Civil service rotational program.
Sec. 6209. Reporting requirement on chiefs of mission.
Sec. 6210. Report on chiefs of mission and deputy chiefs of mission.
Sec. 6211. Protection of retirement annuity for reemployment by 
                            Department.
Sec. 6212. Efforts to improve retention and prevent retaliation.
Sec. 6213. National advertising campaign.
Sec. 6214. Expansion of diplomats in residence programs.
            Subtitle B--Pay, Benefits, and Workforce Matters

Sec. 6221. Education allowance.
Sec. 6222. Per diem allowance for newly hired members of the Foreign 
                            Service.
Sec. 6223. Improving mental health services for foreign and civil 
                            servants.
Sec. 6224. Emergency back-up care.
Sec. 6225. Authority to provide services to non-chief of mission 
                            personnel.
Sec. 6226. Exception for government-financed air transportation.
Sec. 6227. Enhanced authorities to protect locally employed staff 
                            during emergencies.
Sec. 6228. Internet at hardship posts.
Sec. 6229. Competitive local compensation plan.
Sec. 6230. Supporting tandem couples in the Foreign Service.
Sec. 6231. Accessibility at diplomatic missions.
Sec. 6232. Report on breastfeeding accommodations overseas.
Sec. 6233. Determining the effectiveness of knowledge transfers between 
                            Foreign Service Officers.
Sec. 6234. Education allowance for dependents of Department of State 
                            employees located in United States 
                            territories.
         TITLE LXIII--INFORMATION SECURITY AND CYBER DIPLOMACY

Sec. 6301. Data-informed diplomacy.
Sec. 6302. Establishment and expansion of the Bureau Chief Data Officer 
                            Program.
Sec. 6303. Establishment of the Chief Artificial Intelligence Officer 
                            of the Department of State.
Sec. 6304. Strengthening the Chief Information Officer of the 
                            Department of State.
Sec. 6305. Sense of Congress on strengthening enterprise governance.
Sec. 6306. Digital connectivity and cybersecurity partnership.
Sec. 6307. Establishment of a cyberspace, digital connectivity, and 
                            related technologies (CDT) fund.
Sec. 6308. Cyber protection support for personnel of the Department of 
                            State in positions highly vulnerable to 
                            cyber attack.
                TITLE LXIV--ORGANIZATION AND OPERATIONS

Sec. 6401. Personal services contractors.
Sec. 6402. Hard-to-fill posts.
Sec. 6403. Enhanced oversight of the Office of Civil Rights.
Sec. 6404. Crisis response operations.
Sec. 6405. Special Envoy to the Pacific Islands Forum.
Sec. 6406. Special Envoy for Belarus.
Sec. 6407. Overseas placement of special appointment positions.
Sec. 6408. Resources for United States nationals unlawfully or 
                            wrongfully detained abroad.
                     TITLE LXV--ECONOMIC DIPLOMACY

Sec. 6501. Report on recruitment, retention, and promotion of Foreign 
                            Service economic officers.
Sec. 6502. Mandate to revise Department of State metrics for successful 
                            economic and commercial diplomacy.
Sec. 6503. Chief of mission economic responsibilities.
Sec. 6504. Direction to embassy deal teams.
Sec. 6505. Establishment of a ``Deal Team of the Year'' award.
                      TITLE LXVI--PUBLIC DIPLOMACY

Sec. 6601. Public diplomacy outreach.
Sec. 6602. Modification on use of funds for Radio Free Europe/Radio 
                            Liberty.
Sec. 6603. International broadcasting.
Sec. 6604. John Lewis Civil Rights Fellowship program.
Sec. 6605. Domestic engagement and public affairs.
Sec. 6606. Extension of Global Engagement Center.
Sec. 6607. Paperwork Reduction Act.
Sec. 6608. Modernization and enhancement strategy.
                       TITLE LXVII--OTHER MATTERS

Sec. 6701. Internships of United States nationals at international 
                            organizations.
Sec. 6702. Training for international organizations.
Sec. 6703. Modification to transparency on international agreements and 
                            non-binding instruments.
Sec. 6704. Report on partner forces utilizing United States security 
                            assistance identified as using hunger as a 
                            weapon of war.
Sec. 6705. Infrastructure projects and investments by the United States 
                            and People's Republic of China.
Sec. 6706. Special envoys.
Sec. 6707. US-ASEAN Center.
Sec. 6708. Briefings on the United States-European Union Trade and 
                            Technology Council.
Sec. 6709. Modification and repeal of reports.
Sec. 6710. Modification of Build Act of 2018 to prioritize projects 
                            that advance national security.
Sec. 6711. Permitting for international bridges.
                      TITLE LXVIII--AUKUS MATTERS

Sec. 6801. Definitions.
              Subtitle A--Outlining the AUKUS Partnership

Sec. 6811. Statement of policy on the AUKUS partnership.
Sec. 6812. Senior Advisor for the AUKUS partnership at the Department 
                            of State.
         Subtitle B--Authorization for AUKUS Submarine Training

Sec. 6823. Australia, United Kingdom, and United States submarine 
                            security training.
  Subtitle C--Streamlining and Protecting Transfers of United States 
                  Military Technology From Compromise

Sec. 6831. Priority for Australia and the United Kingdom in Foreign 
                            Military Sales and Direct Commercial Sales.
Sec. 6832. Identification and pre-clearance of platforms, technologies, 
                            and equipment for sale to Australia and the 
                            United Kingdom through Foreign Military 
                            Sales and Direct Commercial Sales.
Sec. 6833. Export control exemptions and standards.
Sec. 6834. Expedited review of export licenses for exports of advanced 
                            technologies to Australia, the United 
                            Kingdom, and Canada.
Sec. 6835. United States Munitions List.
                    Subtitle D--Other AUKUS Matters

Sec. 6841. Reporting related to the AUKUS partnership.

SEC. 6002. DEFINITIONS.

    In this division:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign 
        Affairs of the House of Representatives.
            (2) Department.--The term ``Department'' means the 
        Department of State.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of State.

          TITLE LXI--DIPLOMATIC SECURITY AND CONSULAR AFFAIRS

SEC. 6101. SPECIAL HIRING AUTHORITY FOR PASSPORT SERVICES.

    During the 3-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of State, without regard to the provisions 
under sections 3309 through 3318 of title 5, United States Code, may 
directly appoint up to 80 candidates to positions in the competitive 
service (as defined in section 2102 of such title) at the Department in 
the Passport and Visa Examining Series 0967.

SEC. 6102. QUARTERLY REPORT ON PASSPORT WAIT TIMES.

    Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
and quarterly thereafter for the following 3 years, the Secretary shall 
submit a report to the appropriate congressional committees that 
describes--
            (1) the current estimated wait times for passport 
        processing;
            (2) the steps that have been taken by the Department to 
        reduce wait times to a reasonable time;
            (3) efforts to improve the rollout of the online passport 
        renewal processing program, including how much of passport 
        revenues the Department is spending on consular systems 
        modernization;
            (4) the demand for urgent passport services by major 
        metropolitan area;
            (5) the steps that have been taken by the Department to 
        reduce and meet the demand for urgent passport services, 
        particularly in areas that are greater than 5 hours driving 
        time from the nearest passport agency; and
            (6) how the Department details its staff and resources to 
        passport services programs.

SEC. 6103. PASSPORT TRAVEL ADVISORIES.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Department shall make prominently available in United States 
regular passports, on the first three pages of the passport, the 
following information:
            (1) A prominent, clear advisory for all travelers to check 
        travel.state.gov for updated travel warnings and advisories.
            (2) A prominent, clear notice urging all travelers to 
        register with the Department prior to overseas travel.
            (3) A prominent, clear advisory--
                    (A) noting that many countries deny entry to 
                travelers during the last 6 months of their passport 
                validity period; and
                    (B) urging all travelers to renew their passport 
                not later than 1 year prior to its expiration.

SEC. 6104. STRATEGY TO ENSURE ACCESS TO PASSPORT SERVICES FOR ALL 
              AMERICANS.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary shall submit a strategy to the appropriate 
congressional committees, the Committee on Appropriations of the 
Senate, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives for ensuring reasonable access to passport services for 
all Americans, which shall include--
            (1) a detailed strategy describing how the Department 
        could--
                    (A) by not later than 1 year after submission of 
                the strategy, reduce passport processing times to an 
                acceptable average for renewals and for expedited 
                service; and
                    (B) by not later than 2 years after the submission 
                of the strategy, provide United States residents living 
                in a significant population center more than a 5-hour 
                drive from a passport agency with urgent, in-person 
                passport services, including the possibility of 
                building new passport agencies; and
            (2) a description of the specific resources required to 
        implement the strategy.

SEC. 6105. STRENGTHENING THE NATIONAL PASSPORT INFORMATION CENTER.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that passport 
wait times since 2021 have been unacceptably long and have created 
frustration among those seeking to obtain or renew passports.
    (b) Online Chat Feature.--The Department should develop an online 
tool with the capability for customers to correspond with customer 
service representatives regarding questions and updates pertaining to 
their application for a passport or for the renewal of a passport.
    (c) GAO Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall initiate a review of NPIC operations, which shall include an 
analysis of the extent to which NPIC--
            (1) responds to constituent inquiries by telephone, 
        including how long constituents are kept on hold and their 
        ability to be placed in a queue;
            (2) provides personalized customer service;
            (3) maintains its telecommunications infrastructure to 
        ensure it effectively handles call volumes; and
            (4) other relevant issues the Comptroller General deems 
        appropriate.

SEC. 6106. STRENGTHENING PASSPORT CUSTOMER VISIBILITY AND TRANSPARENCY.

    (a) Online Status Tool.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Department should modernize the online 
passport application status tool to include, to the greatest extent 
possible, step by step updates on the status of their application, 
including with respect to the following stages:
            (1) Submitted for processing.
            (2) In process at a lockbox facility.
            (3) Awaiting adjudication.
            (4) In process of adjudication.
            (5) Adjudicated with a result of approval or denial.
            (6) Materials shipped.
    (b) Additional Information.--The tool pursuant to subsection (a) 
should include a display that informs each passport applicant of--
            (1) the date on which his or her passport application was 
        received; and
            (2) the estimated wait time remaining in the passport 
        application process.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs 
shall submit a report to the appropriate congressional committees that 
outlines a plan for coordinated comprehensive public outreach to 
increase public awareness and understanding of--
            (1) the online status tool required under subsection (a);
            (2) passport travel advisories required under section 6103; 
        and
            (3) passport wait times.

SEC. 6107. ANNUAL OFFICE OF AUTHENTICATIONS REPORT.

    (a) Report.--The Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs 
shall submit an annual report for 5 years to the appropriated 
congressional committees that describes--
            (1) the number of incoming authentication requests, broken 
        down by month and type of request, to show seasonal 
        fluctuations in demand;
            (2) the average time taken by the Office of Authentications 
        of the Department of State to authenticate documents, broken 
        down by month to show seasonal fluctuations in wait times;
            (3) how the Department of State details staff to the Office 
        of Authentications; and
            (4) the impact that hiring additional, permanent, dedicated 
        staff for the Office of Authentications would have on the 
        processing times referred to in paragraph (2).
    (b) Authorization.--The Secretary of State is authorized to hire 
additional, permanent, dedicated staff for the Office of 
Authentications.

SEC. 6108. INCREASED ACCOUNTABILITY IN ASSIGNMENT RESTRICTIONS AND 
              REVIEWS.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the use of policies to restrict personnel from serving 
        in certain assignments may undermine the Department's ability 
        to deploy relevant cultural and linguistic skills at diplomatic 
        posts abroad if not applied judiciously; and
            (2) the Department should continuously evaluate all 
        processes relating to assignment restrictions, assignment 
        reviews, and preclusions at the Department.
    (b) Notification of Status.--Beginning not later than 90 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall--
            (1) provide a status update for all Department personnel 
        who, prior to such date of enactment, were subject to a prior 
        assignment restriction, assignment review, or preclusion for 
        whom a review or decision related to assignment is pending; and
            (2) on an ongoing basis, provide a status update for any 
        Department personnel who has been the subject of a pending 
        assignment restriction or pending assignment review for more 
        than 30 days.
    (c) Notification Content.--The notification required under 
subsection (b) shall inform relevant personnel, as of the date of the 
notification--
            (1) whether any prior assignment restriction has been 
        lifted;
            (2) if their assignment status is subject to ongoing 
        review, and an estimated date for completion; and
            (3) if they are subject to any other restrictions on their 
        ability to serve at posts abroad.
    (d) Adjudication of Ongoing Assignment Reviews.--
            (1) Time limit.--The Department shall establish a 
        reasonable time limit for the Department to complete an 
        assignment review and establish a deadline by which it must 
        inform personnel of a decision related to such a review.
            (2) Appeals.--For any personnel the Department determines 
        are ineligible to serve in an assignment due to an assignment 
        restriction or assignment review, a Security Appeal Panel shall 
        convene not later than 120 days of an appeal being filed.
            (3) Entry-level bidding process.--The Department shall 
        include a description of the assignment review process and 
        critical human intelligence threat posts in a briefing to new 
        officers as part of their entry-level bidding process.
            (4) Point of contact.--The Department shall designate point 
        of contacts in the Bureau of Diplomatic Security and Bureau of 
        Global Talent Management to answer employee and Career 
        Development Officer questions about assignment restrictions, 
        assignment reviews, and preclusions.
    (e) Security Appeal Panel.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Security Appeal Panel shall be 
comprised of--
            (1) the head of an office responsible for human resources 
        or discrimination who reports directly to the Secretary;
            (2) the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for the Bureau 
        of Global Talent Management;
            (3) the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for the Bureau 
        of Intelligence and Research;
            (4) an Assistant Secretary or Deputy, or equivalent, from a 
        third bureau as designated by the Under Secretary for 
        Management;
            (5) a representative from the geographic bureau to which 
        the restriction applies; and
            (6) a representative from the Office of the Legal Adviser 
        and a representative from the Bureau of Diplomatic Security, 
        who shall serve as non-voting advisors.
    (f) Appeal Rights.--Section 414(a) of the Department of State 
Authorities Act, Fiscal Year 2017 (22 U.S.C. 2734c(a)) is amended by 
striking the first two sentences and inserting ``The Secretary shall 
establish and maintain a right and process for employees to appeal a 
decision related to an assignment, based on a restriction, review, or 
preclusion. Such right and process shall ensure that any such employee 
shall have the same appeal rights as provided by the Department 
regarding denial or revocation of a security clearance.''.
    (g) FAM Update.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall amend all relevant 
provisions of the Foreign Service Manual, and any associated or related 
policies of the Department, to comply with this section.

SEC. 6109. SUITABILITY REVIEWS FOR FOREIGN SERVICE INSTITUTE 
              INSTRUCTORS.

    The Secretary shall ensure that all instructors at the Foreign 
Service Institute, including direct hires and contractors, who provide 
language instruction are--
            (1) subject to suitability reviews and background 
        investigations; and
            (2) subject to continuous vetting or reinvestigations to 
        the extend consistent with Department and Executive policy for 
        other Department personnel.

SEC. 6110. DIPLOMATIC SECURITY FELLOWSHIP PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--Section 47 of the State Department Basic 
Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2719) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Secretary'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(b) Diplomatic Security Fellowship Programs.--
            ``(1) Establishment.--The Secretary of State, working 
        through the Assistant Secretary for Diplomatic Security, is 
        authorized to establish Diplomatic Security fellowship programs 
        to provide grants to United States nationals pursuing 
        undergraduate studies who commit to pursuing a career as a 
        special agent, security engineering officer, or in the civil 
        service in the Bureau of Diplomatic Security.
            ``(2) Rulemaking.--The Secretary is authorized to 
        promulgate regulations for the administration of Diplomatic 
        Security fellowship programs that set forth--
                    ``(A) the eligibility requirements for receiving a 
                grant under this subsection;
                    ``(B) the process by which eligible applicants may 
                request such a grant;
                    ``(C) the maximum amount of such a grant; and
                    ``(D) the educational progress to which all grant 
                recipients are obligated.''.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated $2,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2028 to 
carry out this section.

                     TITLE LXII--PERSONNEL MATTERS

             Subtitle A--Hiring, Promotion, and Development

SEC. 6201. ADJUSTMENT TO PROMOTION PRECEPTS.

    Section 603(b) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 
4003(b)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (2), (3), and (4) as 
        paragraphs (7), (8), and (9), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
        paragraphs:
            ``(2) experience serving at an international organization, 
        multilateral institution, or engaging in multinational 
        negotiations;
            ``(3) willingness to serve in hardship posts overseas or 
        across geographically distinct regions;
            ``(4) experience advancing policies or developing expertise 
        that enhance the United States' competitiveness with regard to 
        critical and emerging technologies;
            ``(5) willingness to participate in appropriate and 
        relevant professional development opportunities offered by the 
        Foreign Service Institute or other educational institutions 
        associated with the Department;
            ``(6) willingness to enable and encourage subordinates at 
        various levels to avail themselves of appropriate and relevant 
        professional development opportunities offered by the Foreign 
        Service Institute or other educational institutions associated 
        with the Department;''.

SEC. 6202. HIRING AUTHORITIES.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the Department should possess hiring authorities to 
        enable recruitment of individuals representative of the nation 
        with special skills needed to address 21st century diplomacy 
        challenges; and
            (2) the Secretary shall conduct a survey of hiring 
        authorities held by the Department to identify--
                    (A) hiring authorities already authorized by 
                Congress;
                    (B) others authorities granted through Presidential 
                decree or executive order; and
                    (C) any authorities needed to enable recruitment of 
                individuals with the special skills described in 
                paragraph (1).
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees, the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee on Homeland 
Security of the House of Representatives a report that includes a 
description of all existing hiring authorities and legislative 
proposals on any new needed authorities.
    (c) Special Hiring Authority.--For an initial period of not more 
than 3 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
may appoint, without regard to the provisions of sections 3309 through 
3318 of title 5, United States Code, up to 80 candidates directly to 
positions in the competitive service at the Department, as defined in 
section 2102 of that title, in the following occupational series: 25 
candidates under 1560 Data Science, 25 candidates under 2210 
Information Technology Management, and 30 candidates under 0201 Human 
Resources Management.

SEC. 6203. EXTENDING PATHS TO SERVICE FOR PAID STUDENT INTERNS.

    For up to 2 years following the end of a compensated internship at 
the Department, the Department may offer employment to up to 25 such 
interns and appoint them directly to positions in the competitive 
service, as defined in section 2102 of title 5, United States Code, 
without regard to the provisions of sections 3309 through 3318 of such 
title.

SEC. 6204. LATERAL ENTRY PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Section 404 of the Department of State Authorities 
Act, Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-323; 130 Stat. 1928) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``3-year'' and inserting ``5-year'';
                    (B) in paragraph (5), by striking ``; and'';
                    (C) in paragraph (6), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting a semicolon; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraphs:
            ``(7) does not include the use of Foreign Service-Limited 
        or other noncareer Foreign Service hiring authorities; and
            ``(8) includes not fewer than 30 participants for each year 
        of the pilot program.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Certification.--If the Secretary does not commence the 
lateral entry program within 180 days after the date of the enactment 
of this subsection, the Secretary shall submit a report to the 
appropriate congressional committees--
            ``(1) certifying that progress is being made on 
        implementation of the pilot program and describing such 
        progress, including the date on which applicants will be able 
        to apply;
            ``(2) estimating the date by which the pilot program will 
        be fully implemented;
            ``(3) outlining how the Department will use the Lateral 
        Entry Program to fill needed skill sets in key areas such as 
        cyberspace, emerging technologies, economic statecraft, 
        multilateral diplomacy, and data and other sciences.''.

SEC. 6205. MID-CAREER MENTORING PROGRAM.

    (a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in collaboration with the 
Director of the Foreign Service Institute, is authorized to establish a 
Mid-Career Mentoring Program (referred to in this section as the 
``Program'') for employees who have demonstrated outstanding service 
and leadership.
    (b) Selection.--
            (1) Nominations.--The head of each bureau shall 
        semiannually nominate participants for the Program from a pool 
        of applicants in the positions described in paragraph (2)(B), 
        including from posts both domestically and abroad.
            (2) Submission of slate of nominees to secretary.--The 
        Director of the Foreign Service Institute, in consultation with 
        the Director General of the Foreign Service, shall 
        semiannually--
                    (A) vet the nominees most recently nominated 
                pursuant to paragraph (1); and
                    (B) submit to the Secretary a slate of applicants 
                to participate in the Program, who shall consist of at 
                least--
                            (i) 10 Foreign Service Officers and 
                        specialists classified at the FS-03 or FS-04 
                        level of the Foreign Service Salary Schedule;
                            (ii) 10 Civil Service employees classified 
                        at GS-12 or GS-13 of the General Schedule; and
                            (iii) 5 Foreign Service Officers from the 
                        United States Agency for International 
                        Development.
            (3) Final selection.--The Secretary shall select the 
        applicants who will be invited to participate in the Program 
        from the slate received pursuant to paragraph (2)(B) and extend 
        such an invitation to each selected applicant.
            (4) Merit principles.--Section 105 of the Foreign Service 
        Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3905) shall apply to nominations, 
        submissions to the Secretary, and selections for the Program 
        under this section.
    (c) Program Sessions.--
            (1) Frequency; duration.--All of the participants who 
        accept invitations extended pursuant to subsection (b)(3) shall 
        meet 3 to 4 times per year for training sessions with high-
        level leaders of the Department and USAID, including private 
        group meetings with the Secretary and the Administrator of the 
        United States Agency for International Development.
            (2) Themes.--Each session referred to in paragraph (1) 
        shall focus on specific themes developed jointly by the Foreign 
        Service Institute and the Executive Secretariat focused on 
        substantive policy issues and leadership practices.
    (d) Mentoring Program.--The Secretary and the Administrator each is 
authorized to establish a mentoring and coaching program that pairs a 
senior leader of the Department or USAID with each of the program 
participants who complete the Program during the 1-year period 
immediately following their participation in the Program.
    (e) Annual Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for three years, the 
Secretary shall submit a report to the appropriate congressional 
committees that describes the activities of the Program during the most 
recent year and includes disaggregated demographic data on participants 
in the Program.

SEC. 6206. REPORT ON THE FOREIGN SERVICE INSTITUTE'S LANGUAGE PROGRAM.

    Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary shall submit a report to the appropriate congressional 
committees that includes--
            (1) the average pass and fail rates for language programs 
        at the Foreign Service Institute disaggregated by language 
        during the 5-year period immediately preceding the date of the 
        enactment of this Act;
            (2) the number of language instructors at the Foreign 
        Service Institute, and a comparison of the instructor/student 
        ratio in the language programs at the Foreign Service Institute 
        disaggregated by language;
            (3) salaries for language instructors disaggregated by 
        language, and a comparison to salaries for instructors teaching 
        languages in comparable employment;
            (4) recruitment and retention plans for language 
        instructors, disaggregated by language where necessary and 
        practicable; and
            (5) any plans to increase pass rates for languages with 
        high failure rates.

SEC. 6207. CONSIDERATION OF CAREER CIVIL SERVANTS AS CHIEFS OF 
              MISSIONS.

    Section 304(b) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3944) 
is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
        paragraph:
    ``(2) The Secretary shall also furnish to the President, on an 
annual basis and to assist the President in selecting qualified 
candidates for appointments or assignments as chief of mission, the 
names of between 5 and 10 career civil servants serving at the 
Department of State or the United States Agency for International 
Development who are qualified to serve as chiefs of mission, together 
with pertinent information about such individuals.''.

SEC. 6208. CIVIL SERVICE ROTATIONAL PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment of Pilot Rotational Program for Civil Service.--
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary shall establish a program to provide qualified civil 
servants serving at the Department an opportunity to serve at a United 
States embassy, including identifying criteria and an application 
process for such program.
    (b) Program.--The program established under this section shall--
            (1) provide at least 20 career civil servants the 
        opportunity to serve for 2 to 3 years at a United States 
        embassy to gain additional skills and experience;
            (2) offer such civil servants the opportunity to serve in a 
        political or economic section at a United States embassy; and
            (3) include clear and transparent criteria for eligibility 
        and selection, which shall include a minimum of 5 years of 
        service at the Department.
    (c) Subsequent Position and Promotion.--Following a rotation at a 
United States embassy pursuant to the program established by this 
section, participants in the program must be afforded, at minimum, a 
position equivalent in seniority, compensation, and responsibility to 
the position occupied prior serving in the program. Successful 
completion of a rotation at a United States embassy shall be considered 
favorably with regard to applications for promotion in civil service 
jobs at the Department.
    (d) Implementation.--Not later than 2 years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall identify not less than 20 
positions in United States embassies for the program established under 
this section and offered at least 20 civil servants the opportunity to 
serve in a rotation at a United States embassy pursuant to this 
section.

SEC. 6209. REPORTING REQUIREMENT ON CHIEFS OF MISSION.

    Not later than 30 days following the end of each calendar quarter, 
the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees--
            (1) a list of every chief of mission or United States 
        representative overseas with the rank of Ambassador who, during 
        the prior quarter, was outside a country of assignment for more 
        than 14 cumulative days for purposes other than official travel 
        or temporary duty orders; and
            (2) the number of days each such chief of mission or United 
        States representative overseas with the rank of Ambassador was 
        outside a country of assignment during the previous quarter for 
        purposes other than official travel or temporary duty orders.

SEC. 6210. REPORT ON CHIEFS OF MISSION AND DEPUTY CHIEFS OF MISSION.

    Not later than April 1, 2024, and annually thereafter for the next 
4 years, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees a report that includes--
            (1) the Foreign Service cone of each current chief of 
        mission and deputy chief of mission (or whoever is acting in 
        the capacity of chief or deputy chief if neither is present) 
        for each United States embassy at which there is a Foreign 
        Service office filling either of those positions; and
            (2) aggregated data for all chiefs of mission and deputy 
        chiefs of mission described in paragraph (1), disaggregated by 
        cone.

SEC. 6211. PROTECTION OF RETIREMENT ANNUITY FOR REEMPLOYMENT BY 
              DEPARTMENT.

    (a) No Termination or Reduction of Retirement Annuity or Pay for 
Reemployment.--Notwithstanding section 824 of the Foreign Service Act 
of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4064), if a covered annuitant becomes employed by 
the Department--
            (1) the payment of any retirement annuity, retired pay, or 
        retainer pay otherwise payable to the covered annuitant shall 
        not terminate; and
            (2) the amount of the retirement annuity, retired pay, or 
        retainer pay otherwise payable to the covered annuitant shall 
        not be reduced.
    (b) Covered Annuitant Defined.--In this section, the term ``covered 
annuitant'' means any individual who is receiving a retirement annuity 
under--
            (1) the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability System 
        under subchapter I of chapter 8 of title I of the Foreign 
        Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4041 et seq.); or
            (2) the Foreign Service Pension System under subchapter II 
        of such chapter (22 U.S.C. 4071 et seq.).

SEC. 6212. EFFORTS TO IMPROVE RETENTION AND PREVENT RETALIATION.

    (a) Streamlined Reporting.--Not later than one year after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish a single 
point of initial reporting for allegations of discrimination, bullying, 
and harassment that provides an initial review of the allegations and, 
if necessary, the ability to file multiple claims based on a single 
complaint.
    (b) Climate Surveys of Employees of the Department.--
            (1) Required biennial surveys.--Not later than 180 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act and every 2 years 
        thereafter, the Secretary shall conduct a Department-wide 
        survey of all Department personnel regarding harassment, 
        discrimination, bullying, and related retaliation that includes 
        workforce perspectives on the accessibility and effectiveness 
        of the Bureau of Global Talent Management and Office of Civil 
        Rights in the efforts and processes to address these issues.
            (2) Required annual surveys.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, and annually 
                thereafter, the Secretary shall conduct an annual 
                employee satisfaction survey to assess the level of job 
                satisfaction, work environment, and overall employee 
                experience within the Department.
                    (B) Open-ended responses.--The survey required 
                under subparagraph (A) shall include options for open-
                ended responses.
                    (C) Survey questions.--The survey shall include 
                questions regarding--
                            (i) work-life balance;
                            (ii) compensation and benefits;
                            (iii) career development opportunities;
                            (iv) the performance evaluation and 
                        promotion process, including fairness and 
                        transparency;
                            (v) communication channels and 
                        effectiveness;
                            (vi) leadership and management;
                            (vii) organizational culture;
                            (viii) awareness and effectiveness of 
                        complaint measures;
                            (ix) accessibility and accommodations;
                            (x) availability of transportation to and 
                        from a work station;
                            (xi) information technology infrastructure 
                        functionality and accessibility;
                            (xii) the employee's understanding of the 
                        Department's structure, mission, and goals;
                            (xiii) alignment and relevance of work to 
                        the Department's mission; and
                            (xiv) sense of empowerment to affect 
                        positive change.
            (3) Required exit surveys.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                develop and implement a standardized, confidential exit 
                survey process that includes anonymous feedback and 
                exit interviews with employees who voluntarily separate 
                from the Department, whether through resignation, 
                retirement, or other means.
                    (B) Scope.--The exit surveys conducted pursuant to 
                subparagraph (A)shall--
                            (i) be designed to gather insights and 
                        feedback from departing employees regarding--
                                    (I) their reasons for leaving, 
                                including caretaking responsibilities, 
                                career limitations for partner or 
                                spouse, and discrimination, harassment, 
                                bullying, or retaliation;
                                    (II) their overall experience with 
                                the Department; and
                                    (III) any suggestions for 
                                improvement; and
                            (ii) include questions related to--
                                    (I) the employee's reasons for 
                                leaving;
                                    (II) job satisfaction;
                                    (III) work environment;
                                    (IV) professional growth 
                                opportunities;
                                    (V) leadership effectiveness;
                                    (VI) suggestions for enhancing the 
                                Department's performance; and
                                    (VII) if applicable, the name and 
                                industry of the employee's future 
                                employer.
                    (C) Compilation of results.--The Secretary shall 
                compile and analyze the anonymized exit survey data 
                collected pursuant to this paragraph to identify 
                trends, common themes, and areas needing improvement 
                within the Department.
            (4) Pilot surveys.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall conduct a 
        Department-wide survey for Locally Employed Staff regarding 
        retention, training, promotion, and other matters, including 
        harassment, discrimination, bullying, and related retaliation, 
        that includes workforce perspectives on the accessibility and 
        effectiveness of complaint measures.
            (5) Report.--Not later than 60 days after the conclusion of 
        each survey conducted pursuant to this subsection, the 
        Secretary shall make the key findings available to the 
        Department workforce and shall submit them to the appropriate 
        congressional committees.
    (c) Retaliation Prevention Efforts.--
            (1) Employee evaluation.--
                    (A) In general.--If there is a pending 
                investigation of discrimination, bullying, or 
                harassment against a superior who is responsible for 
                rating or reviewing the complainant employee, the 
                complainant shall be reviewed by the superior's 
                supervisor.
                    (B) Effective date.--This paragraph shall take 
                effect 90 days after the date of the enactment of this 
                Act.
            (2) Retaliation prevention guidance.--Any Department 
        employee against whom an allegation of discrimination, 
        bullying, or harassment has been made shall receive written 
        guidance (a ``retaliation hold'') on the types of actions that 
        can be considered retaliation against the complainant employee. 
        The employee's immediate supervisor shall also receive the 
        retaliation hold guidance.

SEC. 6213. NATIONAL ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN.

    Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary shall submit a strategy to the appropriate 
congressional committees that assesses the potential benefits and costs 
of a national advertising campaign to improve the recruitment in the 
Civil Service and the Foreign Service by raising public awareness of 
the important accomplishments of the Department.

SEC. 6214. EXPANSION OF DIPLOMATS IN RESIDENCE PROGRAMS.

    Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this 
Act--
            (1) the Secretary is authorized to increase the number of 
        diplomats in the Diplomats in Residence Program from 17 to at 
        least 20; and
            (2) the Administrator of the United States Agency for 
        International Development is authorized to increase the number 
        of development diplomats in the Diplomats in Residence Program 
        from 1 to at least 3.

            Subtitle B--Pay, Benefits, and Workforce Matters

SEC. 6221. EDUCATION ALLOWANCE.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 9 of title I of the Foreign Service Act of 
1980 (22 U.S.C. 4081 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new section:

``SEC. 908. EDUCATION ALLOWANCE.

    ``A Department employee who is on leave to perform service in the 
uniformed services (as defined in section 4303(13) of title 38, United 
States Code) may receive an education allowance if the employee would, 
if not for such service, be eligible to receive the education 
allowance.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 2 of the 
Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3901 note) is amended by 
inserting after the item relating to section 907 the following:

``Sec. 908. Education allowance''.

SEC. 6222. PER DIEM ALLOWANCE FOR NEWLY HIRED MEMBERS OF THE FOREIGN 
              SERVICE.

    (a) Per Diem Allowance.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), any 
        newly hired Foreign Service employee who is in initial 
        orientation training, or any other training expected to last 
        less than 6 months before transferring to the employee's first 
        assignment, in the Washington, D.C., area shall, for the 
        duration of such training, receive a per diem allowance at the 
        levels prescribed under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, 
        United States Code.
            (2) Limitation on lodging expenses.--A newly hired Foreign 
        Service employee may not receive any lodging expenses under the 
        applicable per diem allowance pursuant to paragraph (1) if that 
        employee--
                    (A) has a permanent residence in the Washington, 
                D.C., area (not including Government-supplied housing 
                during such orientation training or other training); 
                and
                    (B) does not vacate such residence during such 
                orientation training or other training.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``per diem allowance'' has the meaning given 
        that term under section 5701 of title 5, United States Code; 
        and
            (2) the term ``Washington, D.C., area'' means the 
        geographic area within a 50 mile radius of the Washington 
        Monument.

SEC. 6223. IMPROVING MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES FOR FOREIGN AND CIVIL 
              SERVANTS.

    (a) Additional Personnel to Address Mental Health.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall seek to increase the 
        number of personnel within the Bureau of Medical Services to 
        address mental health needs for both foreign and civil 
        servants.
            (2) Employment targets.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall seek to 
        employ not fewer than 15 additional personnel in the Bureau of 
        Medical Services, compared to the number of personnel employed 
        as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Study.--The Secretary shall conduct a study on the 
accessibility of mental health care providers and services available to 
Department personnel, including an assessment of--
            (1) the accessibility of mental health care providers at 
        diplomatic posts and in the United States;
            (2) the accessibility of inpatient services for mental 
        health care for Department personnel;
            (3) steps that may be taken to improve such accessibility;
            (4) the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the mental 
        health of Department personnel, particularly those who served 
        abroad between March 1, 2020, and December 31, 2022, and 
        Locally Employed Staff, where information is available;
            (5) recommended steps to improve the manner in which the 
        Department advertises mental health services to the workforce; 
        and
            (6) additional authorities and resources needed to better 
        meet the mental health needs of Department personnel.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to appropriate 
congressional committees a report containing the findings of the study 
under subsection (b).

SEC. 6224. EMERGENCY BACK-UP CARE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary and the Administrator for the United 
States Agency for International Development are authorized to provide 
for unanticipated non-medical care, including childcare, eldercare, and 
essential services directly related to caring for an acute injury or 
illness, for USAID and Department employees and their family members, 
including through the provision of such non-medical services, referrals 
to care providers, and reimbursement of reasonable expenses for such 
services.
    (b) Limitation.--Services provided pursuant to this section shall 
not exceed $2,000,000 per fiscal year.

SEC. 6225. AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE SERVICES TO NON-CHIEF OF MISSION 
              PERSONNEL.

    Section 904 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4084) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (g), by striking ``abroad for employees 
        and eligible family members'' and inserting ``under this 
        section''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(a) Physical and Mental Health Care Services in Special 
Circumstances.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary is authorized to direct 
        health care providers employed under subsection (c) of this 
        section to furnish physical and mental health care services to 
        an individual otherwise ineligible for services under this 
        section if necessary to preserve life or limb or if intended to 
        facilitate an overseas evacuation, recovery, or return. Such 
        services may be provided incidental to the following 
        activities:
                    ``(A) Activities undertaken abroad pursuant to 
                section 3 and section 4 of the State Department Basic 
                Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2670, 2671).
                    ``(B) Recovery of hostages or of wrongfully or 
                unlawfully detained individuals abroad, including 
                pursuant to section 302 of the Robert Levinson Hostage 
                Recovery and Hostage-Taking Accountability Act (22 
                U.S.C. 1741).
                    ``(C) Secretarial dispatches to international 
                disaster sites deployed pursuant to section 207 of the 
                Aviation Security Improvement Act of 1990 (22 U.S.C. 
                5506).
                    ``(D) Deployments undertaken pursuant to section 
                606(a)(6)(A)(iii) of the Secure Embassy Construction 
                and Counterterrorism Act of 1999 (22 U.S.C. 
                4865(a)(6)(A)(iii)).
            ``(2) Prioritization of other functions.--The Secretary 
        shall prioritize the allocation of Department resources to the 
        health care program described in subsections (a) through (g) 
        above the functions described in paragraph (1).
            ``(3) Regulations.--The Secretary should prescribe 
        applicable regulations to implement this section, taking into 
        account the prioritization in paragraph (2) and the activities 
        described in paragraph (1).
            ``(4) Reimbursable basis.--Services rendered under this 
        subsection shall be provided on a reimbursable basis to the 
        extent practicable.''.

SEC. 6226. EXCEPTION FOR GOVERNMENT-FINANCED AIR TRANSPORTATION.

    (a) Reducing Hardship for Transportation of Domestic Animals.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (c) of 
        section 40118 of title 49, United States Code, the Department 
        is authorized to pay for the transportation by a foreign air 
        carrier of Department personnel and any in-cabin or 
        accompanying checked baggage or cargo if--
                    (A) no air carrier holding a certificate under 
                section 41102 of such title is willing and able to 
                transport up to 3 domestic animals accompanying such 
                Federal personnel; and
                    (B) the transportation is from a place--
                            (i) outside the United States to a place in 
                        the United States;
                            (ii) in the United States to a place 
                        outside the United States; or
                            (iii) outside the United States to another 
                        place outside the United States.
            (2) Limitation.--An amount paid pursuant to paragraph (1) 
        for transportation by a foreign carrier may not be greater than 
        the amount that would otherwise have been paid had the 
        transportation been on an air carrier holding a certificate 
        under section 41102 had that carrier been willing and able to 
        provide such transportation. If the amount that would otherwise 
        have been paid to such an air carrier is less than the cost of 
        transportation on the applicable foreign carrier, the 
        Department personnel may pay the difference of such amount.
            (3) Domestic animal defined.--In this subsection, the term 
        ``domestic animal'' means a dog or a cat.

SEC. 6227. ENHANCED AUTHORITIES TO PROTECT LOCALLY EMPLOYED STAFF 
              DURING EMERGENCIES.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) locally employed staff provide essential contributions 
        at United States diplomatic and consular posts around the 
        world, including by providing--
                    (A) security to United States government personnel 
                serving in the country;
                    (B) advice, expertise, and other services for the 
                promotion of political, economic, public affairs, 
                commercial, security, and other interests of critical 
                importance to the United States;
                    (C) a wide range of logistical and administrative 
                support to every office in each mission working to 
                advance United States interests around the world, 
                including services and support vital to the upkeep and 
                maintenance of United States missions;
                    (D) consular services to support the welfare and 
                well-being of United States citizens and to provide for 
                the expeditious processing of visa applications;
                    (E) institutional memory on a wide range of embassy 
                engagements on bilateral issues; and
                    (F) enduring connections to host country contacts, 
                both inside and outside the host government, including 
                within media, civil society, the business community, 
                academia, the armed forces, and elsewhere; and
            (2) locally employed staff make important contributions 
        that should warrant the United States Government to give due 
        consideration for their security and safety when diplomatic 
        missions face emergency situations.
    (b) Authorization to Provide Emergency Support.--In emergency 
situations, in addition to other authorities that may be available in 
emergencies or other exigent circumstances, the Secretary is authorized 
to use funds made available to the Department to provide support to 
ensure the safety and security of locally employed staff and their 
immediate family members, including for--
            (1) providing transport or relocating locally employed 
        staff and their immediate family members to a safe and secure 
        environment;
            (2) providing short-term housing or lodging for up to six 
        months for locally employed staff and their immediate family 
        members;
            (3) procuring or providing other essential items and 
        services to support the safety and security of locally employed 
        staff and their immediate family members.
    (c) Temporary Housing.--To ensure the safety and security of 
locally employed staff and their immediate family members consistent 
with this section, Chiefs of Missions are authorized to allow locally 
employed staff and their immediate family members to reside temporarily 
in the residences of United States direct hire employees, either in the 
host country or other countries, provided that such stays are offered 
voluntarily by United States direct hire employees.
    (d) Foreign Affairs Manual.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall amend the Foreign 
Affairs Manual to reflect the authorizations and requirements of this 
section.
    (e) Emergency Situation Defined.--In this section, the term 
``emergency situation'' means armed conflict, civil unrest, natural 
disaster, or other types of instability that pose a threat to the 
safety and security of locally employed staff, particularly when and if 
a United States diplomatic or consular post must suspend operations.
    (f) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        appropriate congressional committees, the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the Senate, and the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives a report 
        describing prior actions the Department has taken with regard 
        to locally employed staff and their immediate family members 
        following suspensions or closures of United States diplomatic 
        posts over the prior 10 years, including Kyiv, Kabul, Minsk, 
        Khartoum, and Juba.
            (2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1) 
        shall--
                    (A) describe any actions the Department took to 
                assist locally employed staff and their immediate 
                family members;
                    (B) identify any obstacles that made providing 
                support or assistance to locally employed staff and 
                their immediate family members difficult;
                    (C) examine lessons learned and propose 
                recommendations to better protect the safety and 
                security of locally employed staff and their family 
                members, including any additional authorities that may 
                be required; and
                    (D) provide an analysis of and offer 
                recommendations on any other steps that could improve 
                efforts to protect the safety and security of locally 
                employed staff and their immediate family members.

SEC. 6228. INTERNET AT HARDSHIP POSTS.

     Section 3 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 
(22 U.S.C. 2670) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (l), by striking ``; and'' and inserting 
        a semicolon;
            (2) in subsection (m) by striking the period at the end and 
        by inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(n) pay expenses to provide internet services in residences owned 
or leased by the United States Government in foreign countries for the 
use of Department personnel where Department personnel receive a post 
hardship differential equivalent to 30 percent or more above basic 
compensation.''.

SEC. 6229. COMPETITIVE LOCAL COMPENSATION PLAN.

    (a) Establishment and Implementation of Prevailing Wage Rates 
Goal.--Section 401(a) of the Department of State Authorities Act, 
fiscal year 2017 (22 U.S.C. 3968a(a)) is amended in the matter 
preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``periodically'' and inserting 
``every 3 years''.
    (b) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees, the Committee on Appropriations of the 
Senate, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives a report that includes--
            (1) compensation (including position classification) plans 
        for locally employed staff based upon prevailing wage rates and 
        compensation practices for corresponding types of positions in 
        the locality of employment; and
            (2) an assessment of the feasibility and impact of changing 
        the prevailing wage rate goal for positions in the local 
        compensation plan from the 50th percentile to the 75th 
        percentile.

SEC. 6230. SUPPORTING TANDEM COUPLES IN THE FOREIGN SERVICE.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) challenges finding and maintaining spousal employment 
        and family dissatisfaction are one of the leading reasons 
        employees cite for leaving the Department;
            (2) tandem Foreign Service personnel represent important 
        members of the Foreign Service community, who act as force 
        multipliers for our diplomacy;
            (3) the Department can and should do more to keep tandem 
        couples posted together and consider family member employment 
        needs when assigning tandem officers; and
            (4) common sense steps providing more flexibility in the 
        assignments process would improve outcomes for tandem officers 
        without disadvantaging other Foreign Service officers.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Family togetherness.--The term ``family togetherness'' 
        means facilitating the placement of Foreign Service personnel 
        at the same United States diplomatic post when both spouses are 
        members of a tandem couple of Foreign Service personnel.
            (2) Tandem foreign service personnel; tandem.--The terms 
        ``tandem Foreign Service personnel'' and ``tandem'' mean a 
        member of a couple of which one spouse is a career or career 
        candidate employee of the Foreign Service and the other spouse 
        is a career or career candidate employee of the Foreign Service 
        or an employee of one of the agencies authorized to use the 
        Foreign Service Personnel System under section 202 of the 
        Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3922).
    (c) Family Togetherness in Assignments.--Not later than 90 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Department shall amend and 
update its policies to further promote the principle of family 
togetherness in the Foreign Service, which shall include the following:
            (1) Entry-level foreign service personnel.--The Secretary 
        shall adopt policies and procedures to facilitate the 
        assignment of entry-level tandem Foreign Service personnel on 
        directed assignments to the same diplomatic post or country as 
        their tandem spouse if they request to be assigned to the same 
        post or country. The Secretary shall also provide a written 
        justification to the requesting personnel explaining any denial 
        of a request that would result in a tandem couple not serving 
        together at the same post or country.
            (2) Tenured foreign service personnel.--The Secretary shall 
        add family togetherness to the criteria when making a needs of 
        the Service determination, as defined by the Foreign Affairs 
        Manual, for the placement of tenured tandem Foreign Service 
        personnel at United States diplomatic posts.
            (3) Updates to antinepotism policy.--The Secretary shall 
        update antinepotism policies so that nepotism rules only apply 
        when an employee and a relative are placed into positions 
        wherein they jointly and exclusively control government 
        resources, property, or money or establish government policy.
            (4) Temporary supervision of tandem spouse.--The Secretary 
        shall update policies to allow for a tandem spouse to 
        temporarily supervise another tandem spouse for up to 90 days 
        in a calendar year, including at a United States diplomatic 
        mission.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, and annually thereafter for two years, the Secretary shall 
submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that 
includes--
            (1) the number of Foreign Service tandem couples currently 
        serving;
            (2) the number of Foreign Service tandems currently serving 
        in separate locations, or, to the extent possible, are on leave 
        without pay (LWOP); and
            (3) an estimate of the cost savings that would result if 
        all Foreign Service tandem couples were placed at a single 
        post.

SEC. 6231. ACCESSIBILITY AT DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Department shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees, the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, and the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a report 
that includes--
            (1) a list of the overseas United States diplomatic 
        missions that, as of the date of the enactment of this Act, are 
        not readily accessible to and usable by individuals with 
        disabilities;
            (2) any efforts in progress to make such missions readily 
        accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities; and
            (3) an estimate of the cost to make all such missions 
        readily accessible to and usable by individuals with 
        disabilities.

SEC. 6232. REPORT ON BREASTFEEDING ACCOMMODATIONS OVERSEAS.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees a report that includes--
            (1) a detailed report on the Department's efforts to equip 
        100 percent of United States embassies and consulates with 
        dedicated lactation spaces, other than bathrooms, that are 
        shielded from view and free from intrusion from coworkers and 
        the public for use by employees, including the expected demand 
        for such space as well as the status of such rooms when there 
        is no demand for such space; and
            (2) a description of costs and other resources needed to 
        provide such spaces.

SEC. 6233. DETERMINING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF KNOWLEDGE TRANSFERS BETWEEN 
              FOREIGN SERVICE OFFICERS.

    The Secretary shall assess the effectiveness of knowledge transfers 
between Foreign Service officers who are departing from overseas 
positions and Foreign Service Officers who are arriving at such 
positions, and make recommendations for approving such knowledge 
transfers, as appropriate, by--
            (1) not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, conducting a written survey of a representative 
        sample of Foreign Service Officers working in overseas 
        assignments that analyzes the effectiveness of existing 
        mechanisms to facilitate transitions, including training, 
        mentorship, information technology, knowledge management, 
        relationship building, the role of locally employed staff, and 
        organizational culture; and
            (2) not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, submitting to the Committee on Foreign Relations 
        of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House 
        of Representatives a report that includes a summary and 
        analysis of results of the survey conducted pursuant to 
        paragraph (1) that--
                    (A) identifies best practices and areas for 
                improvement;
                    (B) describes the Department's methodology for 
                determining which Foreign Service Officers should 
                receive familiarization trips before arriving at a new 
                post;
                    (C) includes recommendations regarding future 
                actions the Department should take to maximize 
                effective knowledge transfer between Foreign Service 
                Officers;
                    (D) identifies any steps taken, or intended to be 
                taken, to implement such recommendations, including any 
                additional resources or authorities necessary to 
                implement such recommendations; and
                    (E) provides recommendations to Congress for 
                legislative action to advance the priority described in 
                subparagraph (C).

SEC. 6234. EDUCATION ALLOWANCE FOR DEPENDENTS OF DEPARTMENT OF STATE 
              EMPLOYEES LOCATED IN UNITED STATES TERRITORIES.

    (a) In General.--An individual employed by the Department at a 
location described in subsection (b) shall be eligible for a cost-of-
living allowance for the education of the dependents of such employee 
in an amount that does not exceed the educational allowance authorized 
by the Secretary of Defense for such location.
    (b) Location Described.--A location is described in this subsection 
if--
            (1) such location is in a territory of the United States; 
        and
            (2) the Secretary of Defense has determined that schools 
        available in such location are unable to adequately provide for 
        the education of--
                    (A) dependents of members of the Armed Forces; or
                    (B) dependents of employees of the Department of 
                Defense.

         TITLE LXIII--INFORMATION SECURITY AND CYBER DIPLOMACY

SEC. 6301. DATA-INFORMED DIPLOMACY.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) In a rapidly evolving and digitally interconnected 
        global landscape, access to and maintenance of reliable, 
        readily available data is key to informed decisionmaking and 
        diplomacy and therefore should be considered a strategic asset.
            (2) In order to achieve its mission in the 21st century, 
        the Department must adapt to these trends by maintaining and 
        providing timely access to high-quality data at the time and 
        place needed, while simultaneously cultivating a data-savvy 
        workforce.
            (3) Leveraging data science and data analytics has the 
        potential to improve the performance of the Department's 
        workforce by providing otherwise unknown insights into program 
        deficiencies, shortcomings, or other gaps in analysis.
            (4) While innovative technologies such as artificial 
        intelligence and machine learning have the potential to empower 
        the Department to analyze and act upon data at scale, 
        systematized, sustainable data management and information 
        synthesis remain a core competency necessary for data-driven 
        decisionmaking.
            (5) The goals set out by the Department's Enterprise Data 
        Council (EDC) as the areas of most critical need for the 
        Department, including Cultivating a Data Culture, Accelerating 
        Decisions through Analytics, Establishing Mission-Driven Data 
        Management, and Enhancing Enterprise Data Governance, are 
        laudable and will remain critical as the Department develops 
        into a data-driven agency.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the Department should prioritize the recruitment and 
        retainment of top data science talent in support of its data-
        informed diplomacy efforts as well as its broader modernization 
        agenda; and
            (2) the Department should strengthen data fluency among its 
        workforce, promote data collaboration across and within its 
        bureaus, and enhance its enterprise data oversight.

SEC. 6302. ESTABLISHMENT AND EXPANSION OF THE BUREAU CHIEF DATA OFFICER 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Bureau Chief Data Officer Program.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a 
        program, which shall be known as the ``Bureau Chief Data 
        Officer Program'' (referred to in this section as the 
        ``Program''), overseen by the Department's Chief Data Officer. 
        The Bureau Chief Data Officers hired under this program shall 
        report to their respective Bureau leadership.
            (2) Goals.--The goals of the Program shall include the 
        following:
                    (A) Cultivating a data culture by promoting data 
                fluency and data collaboration across the Department.
                    (B) Promoting increased data analytics use in 
                critical decisionmaking areas.
                    (C) Promoting data integration and standardization.
                    (D) Increasing efficiencies across the Department 
                by incentivizing acquisition of enterprise data 
                solutions and subscription data services to be shared 
                across bureaus and offices and within bureaus.
    (b) Implementation Plan.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees, the Committee on Appropriations 
of the Senate, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives an implementation plan that outlines strategies for--
            (1) advancing the goals described in subsection (a)(2);
            (2) hiring Bureau Chief Data Officers at the GS-14 or GS-15 
        grade or a similar rank;
            (3) assigning at least one Bureau Chief Data Officer to--
                    (A) each regional bureau of the Department;
                    (B) the Bureau of International Organization 
                Affairs;
                    (C) the Office of the Chief Economist;
                    (D) the Office of the Science and Technology 
                Advisor;
                    (E) the Bureau of Cyber and Digital Policy;
                    (F) the Bureau of Diplomatic Security;
                    (G) the Bureau for Global Talent Management; and
                    (H) the Bureau of Consular Affairs; and
            (4) allocation of necessary resources to sustain the 
        Program.
    (c) Assignment.--In implementing the Bureau Chief Data Officer 
Program, Bureaus may not dual-hat currently employed personnel as 
Bureau Chief Data Officers.
    (d) Annual Reporting Requirement.--Not later than 180 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for the 
following 3 years, the Secretary shall submit a report to the 
appropriate congressional committees regarding the status of the 
implementation plan required under subsection (b).

SEC. 6303. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CHIEF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE OFFICER 
              OF THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE.

    Section 1 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 
U.S.C. 2651a) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(n) Chief Artificial Intelligence Officer.--
            ``(1) In general.--There shall be within the Department of 
        State a Chief Artificial Intelligence Officer, which may be 
        dual-hatted as the Department's Chief Data Officer, who shall 
        be a member of the Senior Executive Service.
            ``(2) Duties described.--The principal duties and 
        responsibilities of the Chief Artificial Intelligence Officer 
        shall be--
                    ``(A) to evaluate, oversee, and, if appropriate, 
                facilitate the responsible adoption of artificial 
                intelligence (AI) and machine learning applications to 
                help inform decisions by policymakers and to support 
                programs and management operations of the Department of 
                State; and
                    ``(B) to act as the principal advisor to the 
                Secretary of State on the ethical use of AI and 
                advanced analytics in conducting data-informed 
                diplomacy.
            ``(3) Qualifications.--The Chief Artificial Intelligence 
        Officer should be an individual with demonstrated skill and 
        competency in--
                    ``(A) the use and application of data analytics, 
                AI, and machine learning; and
                    ``(B) transformational leadership and 
                organizational change management, particularly within 
                large, complex organizations.
            ``(4) Partner with the chief information officer on scaling 
        artificial intelligence use cases.--To ensure alignment between 
        the Chief Artificial Intelligence Officer and the Chief 
        Information Officer, the Chief Information Officer will consult 
        with the Chief Artificial Intelligence Officer on best 
        practices for rolling out and scaling AI capabilities across 
        the Bureau of Information and Resource Management's broader 
        portfolio of software applications.
            ``(5) Artificial intelligence defined.--In this subsection, 
        the term `artificial intelligence' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 238(g) of the National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 10 U.S.C. 4001 
        note).''.

SEC. 6304. STRENGTHENING THE CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER OF THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF STATE.

    (a) In General.--The Chief Information Officer of the Department 
shall be consulted on all decisions to approve or disapprove, 
significant new unclassified information technology expenditures, 
including software, of the Department, including expenditures related 
to information technology acquired, managed, and maintained by other 
bureaus and offices within the Department, in order to--
            (1) encourage the use of enterprise software and 
        information technology solutions where such solutions exist or 
        can be developed in a timeframe and manner consistent with 
        maintaining and enhancing the continuity and improvement of 
        Department operations;
            (2) increase the bargaining power of the Department in 
        acquiring information technology solutions across the 
        Department;
            (3) reduce the number of redundant Authorities to Operate 
        (ATO), which, instead of using one ATO-approved platform across 
        bureaus, requires multiple ATOs for software use cases across 
        different bureaus;
            (4) enhance the efficiency, reduce redundancy, and increase 
        interoperability of the use of information technology across 
        the enterprise of the Department;
            (5) enhance training and alignment of information 
        technology personnel with the skills required to maintain 
        systems across the Department;
            (6) reduce costs related to the maintenance of, or 
        effectuate the retirement of, legacy systems;
            (7) ensure the development and maintenance of security 
        protocols regarding the use of information technology solutions 
        and software across the Department; and
            (8) improve end-user training on the operation of 
        information technology solutions and to enhance end-user 
        cybersecurity practices.
    (b) Strategy and Implementation Plan Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Chief Information Officer of the 
        Department shall develop, in consultation with relevant bureaus 
        and offices as appropriate, a strategy and a 5-year 
        implementation plan to advance the objectives described in 
        subsection (a).
            (2) Consultation.--No later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Chief Information Officer shall 
        submit the strategy required by this subsection to the 
        appropriate congressional committees and shall consult with the 
        appropriate congressional committees, not less than on an 
        annual basis for 5 years, regarding the progress related to the 
        implementation plan required by this subjection.
    (c) Improvement Plan for the Bureau for Information Resources 
Management.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Chief Information Officer shall 
        develop policies and protocols to improve the customer service 
        orientation, quality and timely delivery of information 
        technology solutions, and training and support for bureau and 
        office-level information technology officers.
            (2) Survey.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for five years, 
        the Chief Information Officer shall undertake a client 
        satisfaction survey of bureau information technology officers 
        to obtain feedback on metrics related to--
                    (A) customer service orientation of the Bureau of 
                Information Resources Management;
                    (B) quality and timelines of capabilities 
                delivered;
                    (C) maintenance and upkeep of information 
                technology solutions;
                    (D) training and support for senior bureau and 
                office-level information technology officers; and
                    (E) other matters which the Chief Information 
                Officer, in consultation with client bureaus and 
                offices, determine appropriate.
            (3) Submission of findings.--Not later than 60 days after 
        completing each survey required under paragraph (2), the Chief 
        Information Officer shall submit a summary of the findings to 
        the appropriate congressional committees.
    (d) Significant Expenditure Defined.--For purposes of this section, 
the term ``significant expenditure'' means any cumulative expenditure 
in excess of $250,000 total in a single fiscal year for a new 
unclassified software or information technology capability.
    (e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
construed--
            (1) to alter the authorities of the United States Office of 
        Management and Budget, Office of the National Cyber Director, 
        the Department of Homeland Security, or the Cybersecurity and 
        Infrastructure Security Agency with respect to Federal 
        information systems; or
            (2) to alter the responsibilities and authorities of the 
        Chief Information Officer of the Department of State as 
        described in titles 40 or 44, United States Code, or any other 
        law defining or assigning responsibilities or authorities to 
        Federal Chief Information Officers.

SEC. 6305. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON STRENGTHENING ENTERPRISE GOVERNANCE.

     It is the sense of Congress that in order to modernize the 
Department, enterprise-wide governance regarding budget and finance, 
information technology, and the creation, analysis, and use of data 
across the Department is necessary to better align resources to 
strategy, including evaluating trade-offs, and to enhance efficiency 
and security in using data and technology as tools to inform and 
evaluate the conduct of United States foreign policy.

SEC. 6306. DIGITAL CONNECTIVITY AND CYBERSECURITY PARTNERSHIP.

    (a) Digital Connectivity and Cybersecurity Partnership.--The 
Secretary is authorized to establish a program, which may be known as 
the ``Digital Connectivity and Cybersecurity Partnership'', to help 
foreign countries--
            (1) expand and increase secure internet access and digital 
        infrastructure in emerging markets, including demand for and 
        availability of high-quality information and communications 
        technology (ICT) equipment, software, and services;
            (2) protect technological assets, including data;
            (3) adopt policies and regulatory positions that foster and 
        encourage open, interoperable, reliable, and secure internet, 
        the free flow of data, multi-stakeholder models of internet 
        governance, and pro-competitive and secure ICT policies and 
        regulations;
            (4) access United States exports of ICT goods and services;
            (5) expand interoperability and promote the diversification 
        of ICT goods and supply chain services to be less reliant on 
        PRC imports;
            (6) promote best practices and common standards for a 
        national approach to cybersecurity; and
            (7) advance other priorities consistent with paragraphs (1) 
        through (6), as determined by the Secretary.
    (b) Use of Funds.--Funds made available to carry out this section 
may be used to strengthen civilian cybersecurity and information and 
communications technology capacity, including participation of foreign 
law enforcement and military personnel in non-military activities, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, provided that such support 
is essential to enabling civilian and law enforcement of cybersecurity 
and information and communication technology related activities in 
their respective countries.
    (c) Implementation Plan.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees an implementation plan for the 
coming year to advance the goals identified in subsection (a).
    (d) Consultation.--In developing and operationalizing the 
implementation plan required under subsection (c), the Secretary shall 
consult with--
            (1) the appropriate congressional committees, the Committee 
        on Appropriations of the Senate, and the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives;
            (2) United States industry leaders;
            (3) other relevant technology experts, including the Open 
        Technology Fund;
            (4) representatives from relevant United States Government 
        agencies; and
            (5) representatives from like-minded allies and partners.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated $100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2028 to 
carry out this section. Such funds, including funds authorized to be 
appropriated under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'', may be made 
available, notwithstanding any other provision of law to strengthen 
civilian cybersecurity and information and communications technology 
capacity, including for participation of foreign law enforcement and 
military personnel in non-military activities, and for contributions. 
Such funds shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 6307. ESTABLISHMENT OF A CYBERSPACE, DIGITAL CONNECTIVITY, AND 
              RELATED TECHNOLOGIES (CDT) FUND.

    Part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2301 et 
seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new chapter:

      ``CHAPTER 10--CYBERSPACE, DIGITAL CONNECTIVITY, AND RELATED 
                        TECHNOLOGIES (CDT) FUND

``SEC. 591. FINDINGS.

    ``Congress makes the following findings:
            ``(1) Increasingly digitized and interconnected social, 
        political, and economic systems have introduced new 
        vulnerabilities for malicious actors to exploit, which 
        threatens economic and national security.
            ``(2) The rapid development, deployment, and integration of 
        information and communication technologies into all aspects of 
        modern life bring mounting risks of accidents and malicious 
        activity involving such technologies, and their potential 
        consequences.
            ``(3) Because information and communication technologies 
        are globally manufactured, traded, and networked, the economic 
        and national security of the United State depends greatly on 
        cybersecurity practices of other actors, including other 
        countries.
            ``(4) United States assistance to countries and 
        international organizations to bolster civilian capacity to 
        address national cybersecurity and deterrence in cyberspace can 
        help--
                    ``(A) reduce vulnerability in the information and 
                communication technologies ecosystem; and
                    ``(B) advance national and economic security 
                objectives.

``SEC. 592. AUTHORIZATION OF ASSISTANCE AND FUNDING FOR CYBERSPACE, 
              DIGITAL CONNECTIVITY, AND RELATED TECHNOLOGIES (CDT) 
              CAPACITY BUILDING ACTIVITIES.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary of State is authorized to 
provide assistance to foreign governments and organizations, including 
national, regional, and international institutions, on such terms and 
conditions as the Secretary may determine, in order to--
            ``(1) advance a secure and stable cyberspace;
            ``(2) protect and expand trusted digital ecosystems and 
        connectivity;
            ``(3) build the cybersecurity capacity of partner countries 
        and organizations; and
            ``(4) ensure that the development of standards and the 
        deployment and use of technology supports and reinforces human 
        rights and democratic values, including through the Digital 
        Connectivity and Cybersecurity Partnership.
    ``(b) Scope of Uses.--Assistance under this section may include 
programs to--
            ``(1) advance the adoption and deployment of secure and 
        trustworthy information and communications technology (ICT) 
        infrastructure and services, including efforts to grow global 
        markets for secure ICT goods and services and promote a more 
        diverse and resilient ICT supply chain;
            ``(2) provide technical and capacity building assistance 
        to--
                    ``(A) promote policy and regulatory frameworks that 
                create an enabling environment for digital connectivity 
                and a vibrant digital economy;
                    ``(B) ensure technologies, including related new 
                and emerging technologies, are developed, deployed, and 
                used in ways that support and reinforce democratic 
                values and human rights;
                    ``(C) promote innovation and competition; and
                    ``(D) support digital governance with the 
                development of rights-respecting international norms 
                and standards;
            ``(3) help countries prepare for, defend against, and 
        respond to malicious cyber activities, including through--
                    ``(A) the adoption of cybersecurity best practices;
                    ``(B) the development of national strategies to 
                enhance cybersecurity;
                    ``(C) the deployment of cybersecurity tools and 
                services to increase the security, strength, and 
                resilience of networks and infrastructure;
                    ``(D) support for the development of cybersecurity 
                watch, warning, response, and recovery capabilities, 
                including through the development of cybersecurity 
                incident response teams;
                    ``(E) support for collaboration with the 
                Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) 
                and other relevant Federal agencies to enhance 
                cybersecurity;
                    ``(F) programs to strengthen allied and partner 
                governments' capacity to detect, investigate, deter, 
                and prosecute cybercrimes;
                    ``(G) programs to provide information and resources 
                to diplomats engaging in discussions and negotiations 
                around international law and capacity building measures 
                related to cybersecurity;
                    ``(H) capacity building for cybersecurity partners, 
                including law enforcement and military entities as 
                described in subsection (f);
                    ``(I) programs that enhance the ability of relevant 
                stakeholders to act collectively against shared 
                cybersecurity threats;
                    ``(J) the advancement of programs in support of the 
                Framework of Responsible State Behavior in Cyberspace; 
                and
                    ``(K) the fortification of deterrence instruments 
                in cyberspace; and
            ``(4) such other purpose and functions as the Secretary of 
        State may designate.
    ``(c) Responsibility for Policy Decisions and Justification.--The 
Secretary of State shall be responsible for policy decisions regarding 
programs under this chapter, with respect to--
            ``(1) whether there will be cybersecurity and digital 
        capacity building programs for a foreign country or entity 
        operating in that country;
            ``(2) the amount of funds for each foreign country or 
        entity; and
            ``(3) the scope and nature of such uses of funding.
    ``(d) Detailed Justification for Uses and Purposes of Funds.--The 
Secretary of State shall provide, on an annual basis, a detailed 
justification for the uses and purposes of the amounts provided under 
this chapter, including information concerning--
            ``(1) the amounts and kinds of grants;
            ``(2) the amounts and kinds of budgetary support provided, 
        if any; and
            ``(3) the amounts and kinds of project assistance provided 
        for what purpose and with such amounts.
    ``(e) Assistance and Funding Under Other Authorities.--The 
authority granted under this section to provide assistance or funding 
for countries and organizations does not preclude the use of funds 
provided to carry out other authorities also available for such 
purpose.
    ``(f) Availability of Funds.--Amounts appropriated to carry out 
this chapter may be used, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
to strengthen civilian cybersecurity and information and communications 
technology capacity, including participation of foreign law enforcement 
and military personnel in non-military activities, provided that such 
support is essential to enabling civilian and law enforcement of 
cybersecurity and information and communication technology related 
activities in their respective countries.
    ``(g) Notification Requirements.--Funds made available under this 
section shall be obligated in accordance with the procedures applicable 
to reprogramming notifications pursuant to section 634A of this Act.

``SEC. 593. REVIEW OF EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE CAPACITY.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of State, in consultation as 
appropriate with other relevant Federal departments and agencies is 
authorized to conduct a review that--
            ``(1) analyzes the United States Government's capacity to 
        promptly and effectively deliver emergency support to countries 
        experiencing major cybersecurity and ICT incidents;
            ``(2) identifies relevant factors constraining the support 
        referred to in paragraph (1); and
            ``(3) develops a strategy to improve coordination among 
        relevant Federal agencies and to resolve such constraints.
    ``(b) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this chapter, the Secretary of State shall submit a report 
to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee 
on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives that contains the 
results of the review conducted pursuant to subsection (a).

``SEC. 594. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``There is authorized to be appropriated $150,000,000 during the 5-
year period beginning on October 1, 2023, to carry out the purposes of 
this chapter.''.

SEC. 6308. CYBER PROTECTION SUPPORT FOR PERSONNEL OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
              STATE IN POSITIONS HIGHLY VULNERABLE TO CYBER ATTACK.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) At-risk personnel.--The term ``at-risk personnel'' 
        means personnel of the Department--
                    (A) whom the Secretary determines to be highly 
                vulnerable to cyber attacks and hostile information 
                collection activities because of their positions in the 
                Department; and
                    (B) whose personal technology devices or personal 
                accounts are highly vulnerable to cyber attacks and 
                hostile information collection activities.
            (2) Personal accounts.--The term ``personal accounts'' 
        means accounts for online and telecommunications services, 
        including telephone, residential internet access, email, text 
        and multimedia messaging, cloud computing, social media, health 
        care, and financial services, used by personnel of the 
        Department outside of the scope of their employment with the 
        Department.
            (3) Personal technology devices.--The term ``personal 
        technology devices'' means technology devices used by personnel 
        of the Department outside of the scope of their employment with 
        the Department, including networks to which such devices 
        connect.
    (b) Requirement to Provide Cyber Protection Support.--The 
Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security and 
the Director of National Intelligence, as appropriate--
            (1) shall offer cyber protection support for the personal 
        technology devices and personal accounts of at-risk personnel; 
        and
            (2) may provide the support described in paragraph (1) to 
        any Department personnel who request such support.
    (c) Nature of Cyber Protection Support.--Subject to the 
availability of resources, the cyber protection support provided to 
personnel pursuant to subsection (b) may include training, advice, 
assistance, and other services relating to protection against cyber 
attacks and hostile information collection activities.
    (d) Privacy Protections for Personal Devices.--The Department is 
prohibited pursuant to this section from accessing or retrieving any 
information from any personal technology device or personal account of 
Department employees unless--
            (1) access or information retrieval is necessary for 
        carrying out the cyber protection support specified in this 
        section; and
            (2) the Department has received explicit consent from the 
        employee to access a personal technology device or personal 
        account prior to each time such device or account is accessed.
    (e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
construed--
            (1) to encourage Department personnel to use personal 
        technology devices for official business; or
            (2) to authorize cyber protection support for senior 
        Department personnel using personal devices, networks, and 
        personal accounts in an official capacity.
    (f) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit a report to the 
appropriate congressional committees regarding the provision of cyber 
protection support pursuant to subsection (b), which shall include--
            (1) a description of the methodology used to make the 
        determination under subsection (a)(1); and
            (2) guidance for the use of cyber protection support and 
        tracking of support requests for personnel receiving cyber 
        protection support pursuant to subsection (b).

                TITLE LXIV--ORGANIZATION AND OPERATIONS

SEC. 6401. PERSONAL SERVICES CONTRACTORS.

    (a) Exigent Circumstances and Crisis Response.--To assist the 
Department in addressing and responding to exigent circumstances and 
urgent crises abroad, the Department is authorized to employ, 
domestically and abroad, a limited number of personal services 
contractors in order to meet exigent needs, subject to the requirements 
of this section.
    (b) Authority.--The authority to employ personal services 
contractors is in addition to any existing authorities to enter into 
personal services contracts and authority provided in the Afghanistan 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2022 (division C of Public Law 117-
43).
    (c) Employing and Allocation of Personnel.--To meet the needs 
described in subsection (a) and subject to the requirements in 
subsection (d), the Department may--
            (1) enter into contracts to employ a total of up to 100 
        personal services contractors at any given time for each of 
        fiscal years 2024, 2025, and 2026; and
            (2) allocate up to 20 personal services contractors to a 
        given bureau, without regard to the sources of funding such 
        office relies on to compensate individuals.
    (d) Limitation.--Employment authorized by this section shall not 
exceed two calendar years.
    (e) Notification and Reporting to Congress.--
            (1) Notification.--Not later than 15 days after the use of 
        authority under this section, the Secretary shall notify the 
        appropriate congressional committees, the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the Senate, and the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives of the number of 
        personal services contractors being employed, the expected 
        length of employment, the relevant bureau, the purpose for 
        using personal services contractors, and the justification, 
        including the exigent circumstances requiring such use.
            (2) Annual reporting.--Not later than 60 days after the end 
        of each fiscal year, the Department shall submit to the 
        appropriate congressional committees, the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the Senate, and the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives a report 
        describing the number of personal services contractors employed 
        pursuant to this section for the prior fiscal year, the length 
        of employment, the relevant bureau by which they were employed 
        pursuant to this section, the purpose for using personal 
        services contractors, disaggregated demographic data of such 
        contractors, and the justification for the employment, 
        including the exigent circumstances.

SEC. 6402. HARD-TO-FILL POSTS.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the number of hard-to-fill vacancies at United States 
        diplomatic missions is far too high, particularly in Sub-
        Saharan Africa;
            (2) these vacancies--
                    (A) adversely impact the Department's execution of 
                regional strategies;
                    (B) hinder the ability of the United States to 
                effectively compete with strategic competitors, such as 
                the People's Republic of China and the Russian 
                Federation; and
                    (C) present a clear national security risk to the 
                United States; and
            (3) if the Department is unable to incentivize officers to 
        accept hard-to-fill positions, the Department should consider 
        directed assignments, particularly for posts in Africa, and 
        other means to more effectively advance the national interests 
        of the United States.
    (b) Report on Development of Incentives for Hard-to-fill Posts.--
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary shall submit a report to the appropriate congressional 
committees on efforts to develop new incentives for hard-to-fill 
positions at United States diplomatic missions. The report shall 
include a description of the incentives developed to date and proposals 
to try to more effectively fill hard-to-fill posts.
    (c) Study on Feasibility of Allowing Non-Consular Foreign Service 
Officers Given Directed Consular Posts to Volunteer for Hard-to-fill 
Posts in Understaffed Regions.--
            (1) Study.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                conduct a study on--
                            (i) the number of Foreign Service positions 
                        vacant for six months or longer at overseas 
                        posts, including for consular, political, and 
                        economic positions, over the last five years, 
                        broken down by region, and a comparison of the 
                        proportion of vacancies between regions; and
                            (ii) the feasibility of allowing first-tour 
                        Foreign Service generalists in non-Consular 
                        cones, directed for a consular tour, to 
                        volunteer for reassignment at hard-to-fill 
                        posts in understaffed regions.
                    (B) Matters to be considered.--The study conducted 
                under subparagraph (A) shall consider whether allowing 
                first-tour Foreign Service generalists to volunteer as 
                described in such subparagraph would address current 
                vacancies and what impact the new mechanism would have 
                on consular operations.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 60 days after completing the 
        study required under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit 
        to the appropriate congressional committees a report containing 
        the findings of the study.

SEC. 6403. ENHANCED OVERSIGHT OF THE OFFICE OF CIVIL RIGHTS.

    (a) Report With Recommendations and Management Structure.--Not 
later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
report with any recommendations for the long-term structure and 
management of the Office of Civil Rights (OCR), including--
            (1) an assessment of the strengths and weaknesses of OCR's 
        investigative processes and procedures;
            (2) any changes made within OCR to its investigative 
        processes to improve the integrity and thoroughness of its 
        investigations; and
            (3) any recommendations to improve the management 
        structure, investigative process, and oversight of the Office.

SEC. 6404. CRISIS RESPONSE OPERATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall institute the following 
changes and ensure that the following elements have been integrated 
into the ongoing crisis response management and response by the Crisis 
Management and Strategy Office:
            (1) The Department's crisis response planning and 
        operations shall conduct, maintain, and update on a regular 
        basis contingency plans for posts and regions experiencing or 
        vulnerable to conflict or emergency conditions, including armed 
        conflict, national disasters, significant political or military 
        upheaval, and emergency evacuations.
            (2) The Department's crisis response efforts shall be led 
        by an individual with significant experience responding to 
        prior crises, who shall be so designated by the Secretary.
            (3) The Department's crisis response efforts shall provide 
        at least quarterly updates to the Secretary and other relevant 
        senior officials, including a plan and schedule to develop 
        contingency planning for identified posts and regions 
        consistent with paragraph (1).
            (4) The decision to develop contingency planning for any 
        particular post or region shall be made independent of any 
        regional bureau.
            (5) The crisis response team shall develop and maintain 
        best practices for evacuations, closures, and emergency 
        conditions.
    (b) Update.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter for 
        the next five years, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        appropriate congressional committees, the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the Senate, and the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives an update 
        outlining the steps taken to implement this section, along with 
        any other recommendations to improve the Department's crisis 
        management and response operations.
            (2) Contents.--Each update submitted pursuant to paragraph 
        (1) should include--
                    (A) a list of the posts whose contingency plans, 
                including any noncombatant evacuation contingencies, 
                has been reviewed and updated as appropriate during the 
                preceding 180 days; and
                    (B) an assessment of the Secretary's confidence 
                that each post--
                            (i) has continuously reached out to United 
                        States persons in country to maintain and 
                        update contact information for as many such 
                        persons as practicable; and
                            (ii) is prepared to communicate with such 
                        persons in an emergency or crisis situation.
            (3) Form.--Each update submitted pursuant to paragraph (1) 
        shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
        classified annex.

SEC. 6405. SPECIAL ENVOY TO THE PACIFIC ISLANDS FORUM.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the United States must increase its diplomatic activity 
        and presence in the Pacific, particularly among Pacific Island 
        nations; and
            (2) the Special Envoy to the Pacific Islands Forum--
                    (A) should advance the United States partnership 
                with Pacific Island Forum nations and with the 
                organization itself on key issues of importance to the 
                Pacific region; and
                    (B) should coordinate policies across the Pacific 
                region with like-minded democracies.
    (b) Appointment of Special Envoy to the Pacific Islands Forum.--
Section 1 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 
U.S.C. 2651a), as amended by section 6304, is further amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(o) Special Envoy to the Pacific Islands Forum.--
            ``(1) Appointment.--The President shall appoint, by and 
        with the advice and consent of the Senate, a qualified 
        individual to serve as Special Envoy to the Pacific Islands 
        Forum (referred to in this section as the `Special Envoy').
            ``(2) Considerations.--
                    ``(A) Selection.--The Special Envoy shall be--
                            ``(i) a United States Ambassador to a 
                        country that is a member of the Pacific Islands 
                        Forum; or
                            ``(ii) a qualified individual who is not 
                        described in clause (i).
                    ``(B) Limitations.--If the President appoints an 
                Ambassador to a country that is a member of the Pacific 
                Islands Forum to serve concurrently as the Special 
                Envoy to the Pacific Islands Forum, such Ambassador--
                            ``(i) may not begin service as the Special 
                        Envoy until he or she has been confirmed by the 
                        Senate for an ambassadorship to a country that 
                        is a member of the Pacific Islands Forum; and
                            ``(ii) shall not receive additional 
                        compensation for his or her service as Special 
                        Envoy.
            ``(3) Duties.--The Special Envoy shall--
                    ``(A) represent the United States in its role as 
                dialogue partner to the Pacific Islands Forum; and
                    ``(B) carry out such other duties as the President 
                or the Secretary of State may prescribe.''.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit a report to the 
appropriate congressional committees that describes how the Department 
will increase its ability to recruit and retain highly-qualified 
ambassadors, special envoys, and other senior personnel in posts in 
Pacific island countries as the Department expands its diplomatic 
footprint throughout the region.

SEC. 6406. SPECIAL ENVOY FOR BELARUS.

    (a) Special Envoy.--The President shall appoint a Special Envoy for 
Belarus within the Department (referred to in this section as the 
``Special Envoy''). The Special Envoy should be a person of recognized 
distinction in the field of European security, geopolitics, democracy 
and human rights, and may be a career Foreign Service officer.
    (b) Central Objective.--The central objective of the Special Envoy 
is to coordinate and promote efforts--
            (1) to improve respect for the fundamental human rights of 
        the people of Belarus;
            (2) to sustain focus on the national security implications 
        of Belarus's political and military alignment for the United 
        States; and
            (3) to respond to the political, economic, and security 
        impacts of events in Belarus upon neighboring countries and the 
        wider region.
    (c) Duties and Responsibilities.--The Special Envoy shall--
            (1) engage in discussions with Belarusian officials 
        regarding human rights, political, economic and security issues 
        in Belarus;
            (2) support international efforts to promote human rights 
        and political freedoms in Belarus, including coordination and 
        dialogue between the United States and the United Nations, the 
        Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the 
        European Union, Belarus, and the other countries in Eastern 
        Europe;
            (3) consult with nongovernmental organizations that have 
        attempted to address human rights and political and economic 
        instability in Belarus;
            (4) make recommendations regarding the funding of 
        activities promoting human rights, democracy, the rule of law, 
        and the development of a market economy in Belarus;
            (5) review strategies for improving protection of human 
        rights in Belarus, including technical training and exchange 
        programs;
            (6) develop an action plan for holding to account the 
        perpetrators of the human rights violations documented in the 
        United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights report on the 
        situation of human rights in Belarus in the run-up to the 2020 
        presidential election and its aftermath (Human Rights Council 
        Resolution 49/36);
            (7) engage with member countries of the North Atlantic 
        Treaty Organization, the Organization for Security and 
        Cooperation in Europe and the European Union with respect to 
        the implications of Belarus's political and security alignment 
        for transatlantic security; and
            (8) work within the Department and among partnering 
        countries to sustain focus on the political situation in 
        Belarus.
    (d) Role.--The position of Special Envoy--
            (1) shall be a full-time position;
            (2) may not be combined with any other position within the 
        Department;
            (3) shall only exist as long as United States diplomatic 
        operations in Belarus at United States Embassy Minsk have been 
        suspended; and
            (4) shall oversee the operations and personnel of the 
        Belarus Affairs Unit.
    (e) Report on Activities.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for the following 
5 years, the Secretary, in consultation with the Special Envoy, shall 
submit a report to the appropriate congressional committees that 
describes the activities undertaken pursuant to subsection (c) during 
the reporting period.
    (f) Sunset.--The position of Special Envoy for Belarus Affairs and 
the authorities provided by this section shall terminate 5 years after 
the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 6407. OVERSEAS PLACEMENT OF SPECIAL APPOINTMENT POSITIONS.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees 
a report on current special appointment positions at United States 
diplomatic missions that do not exercise significant authority, and all 
positions under schedule B or schedule C of subpart C of part 213 of 
title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, at United States diplomatic 
missions. The report shall include the title and responsibilities of 
each position, the expected duration of the position, the name of the 
individual currently appointed to the position, and the hiring 
authority utilized to fill the position.

SEC. 6408. RESOURCES FOR UNITED STATES NATIONALS UNLAWFULLY OR 
              WRONGFULLY DETAINED ABROAD.

    Section 302(d) of the Robert Levinson Hostage Recovery and Hostage-
Taking Accountability Act (22 U.S.C. 1741(d)) is amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Resource 
        Guidance'' and inserting ``Resources for United States 
        Nationals Unlawfully or Wrongfully Detained Abroad'';
            (2) in paragraph (1), by striking the paragraph heading and 
        all that follows through ``Not later than'' and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(1) Resource guidance.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than'';
            (3) in paragraph (2), by redesignating subparagraphs (A), 
        (B), (C), (D), and (E) and clauses (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), and 
        (v), respectively, and moving such clauses (as so redesignated) 
        2 ems to the right;
            (4) by redesignating paragraph (2) as subparagraph (B) and 
        moving such subparagraph (as so redesignated) 2 ems to the 
        right;
            (5) in subparagraph (B), as redesignated by paragraph (4), 
        by striking ``paragraph (1)'' and inserting ``subparagraph 
        (A)''; and
            (6) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Travel assistance.--
                    ``(A) Family advocacy.--For the purpose of 
                facilitating meetings between the United States 
                Government and the family members of United States 
                nationals unlawfully or wrongfully detained abroad, the 
                Secretary shall provide financial assistance to cover 
                the costs of travel to Washington, D.C., including 
                travel by air, train, bus, or other transit as 
                appropriate, to any individual who--
                            ``(i) is--
                                    ``(I) a family member of a United 
                                States national unlawfully or 
                                wrongfully detained abroad as 
                                determined by the Secretary under 
                                subsection (a); or
                                    ``(II) an appropriate individual 
                                who--
                                            ``(aa) is approved by the 
                                        Special Presidential Envoy for 
                                        Hostage Affairs; and
                                            ``(bb) does not represent 
                                        in any legal capacity a United 
                                        States national unlawfully or 
                                        wrongfully detained abroad or 
                                        the family of such United 
                                        States national;
                            ``(ii) has a permanent address that is more 
                        than 50 miles from Washington, D.C.; and
                            ``(iii) requests such assistance.
                    ``(B) Travel and lodging.--
                            ``(i) In general.--For each such United 
                        States national unlawfully or wrongfully 
                        detained abroad, the financial assistance 
                        described in subparagraph (A) shall be provided 
                        for not more than 2 trips per fiscal year, 
                        unless the Special Presidential Envoy for 
                        Hostage Affairs determines that a third trip is 
                        warranted.
                            ``(ii) Limitations.--Any trip described in 
                        clause (i) shall--
                                    ``(I) consist of not more than 2 
                                family members or other individuals 
                                approved in accordance with 
                                subparagraph (A)(i)(II), unless the 
                                Special Presidential Envoy for Hostage 
                                Affairs determines that circumstances 
                                warrant an additional family member or 
                                other individual approved in accordance 
                                with subparagraph (A)(i)(II) and 
                                approves assistance to such third 
                                family member or other individual; and
                                    ``(II) not exceed more than 2 
                                nights lodging, which shall not exceed 
                                the applicable government rate.
                    ``(C) Return travel.--If other United States 
                Government assistance is unavailable, the Secretary may 
                provide to a United States national unlawfully or 
                wrongfully detained abroad as determined by the 
                Secretary under subsection (a), compensation and 
                assistance, as necessary, for return travel to the 
                United States upon release of such United States 
                national.
            ``(3) Support.--The Secretary shall seek to make available 
        operational psychologists and clinical social workers, to 
        support the mental health and well-being of--
                    ``(A) any United States national unlawfully or 
                wrongfully detained abroad; and
                    ``(B) any family member of such United States 
                national, with regard to the psychological, social, and 
                mental health effects of such unlawful or wrongful 
                detention.
            ``(4) Notification requirement.--The Secretary shall notify 
        the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, the Committee 
        on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the 
        Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives of any amount spent above $250,000 for any 
        fiscal year to carry out paragraphs (2) and (3).
            ``(5) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the end of each 
        fiscal year, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on 
        Foreign Relations and Appropriations of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Foreign Affairs and Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives a report that includes--
                    ``(A) a detailed description of expenditures made 
                pursuant to paragraphs (2) and (3);
                    ``(B) a detailed description of support provided 
                pursuant to paragraph (3) and the individuals providing 
                such support; and
                    ``(C) the number and location of visits outside of 
                Washington, D.C., during the prior fiscal year made by 
                the Special Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs to 
                family members of each United States national 
                unlawfully or wrongfully detained abroad.
            ``(6) Sunset.--The authority and requirements under 
        paragraphs (2), (3), (4), and (5) shall terminate on December 
        31, 2027.
            ``(7) Family member defined.--In this subsection, the term 
        `family member' means a spouse, father, mother, child, brother, 
        sister, grandparent, grandchild, aunt, uncle, nephew, niece, 
        cousin, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-
        law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, 
        stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, 
        or half sister.''.

                     TITLE LXV--ECONOMIC DIPLOMACY

SEC. 6501. REPORT ON RECRUITMENT, RETENTION, AND PROMOTION OF FOREIGN 
              SERVICE ECONOMIC OFFICERS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit a report to the 
appropriate congressional committees regarding the recruitment, 
retention, and promotion of economic officers in the Foreign Service.
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (b) shall 
include--
            (1) an overview of the key challenges the Department faces 
        in--
                    (A) recruiting individuals to serve as economic 
                officers in the Foreign Service; and
                    (B) retaining individuals serving as economic 
                officers in the Foreign Service, particularly at the 
                level of GS-14 of the General Schedule and higher;
            (2) an overview of the key challenges in recruiting and 
        retaining qualified individuals to serve in economic positions 
        in the Civil Service;
            (3) a comparison of promotion rates for economic officers 
        in the Foreign Service relative to other officers in the 
        Foreign Service;
            (4) a summary of the educational history and training of 
        current economic officers in the Foreign Service and Civil 
        Service officers serving in economic positions;
            (5) the identification, disaggregated by region, of hard-
        to-fill posts and proposed incentives to improve staffing of 
        economic officers in the Foreign Service at such posts;
            (6) a summary and analysis of the factors that lead to the 
        promotion of--
                    (A) economic officers in the Foreign Service; and
                    (B) individuals serving in economic positions in 
                the Civil Service; and
            (7) a summary and analysis of current Department-funded or 
        run training opportunities and externally-funded programs, 
        including the Secretary's Leadership Seminar at Harvard 
        Business School, for--
                    (A) economic officers in the Foreign Service; and
                    (B) individuals serving in economic positions in 
                the Civil Service.

SEC. 6502. MANDATE TO REVISE DEPARTMENT OF STATE METRICS FOR SUCCESSFUL 
              ECONOMIC AND COMMERCIAL DIPLOMACY.

    (a) Mandate to Revise Department of State Performance Measures for 
Economic and Commercial Diplomacy.--The Secretary shall, as part of the 
Department's next regularly scheduled review on metrics and performance 
measures, include revisions of Department performance measures for 
economic and commercial diplomacy, by identifying outcome-oriented, and 
not process-oriented, performance metrics, including metrics that--
            (1) measure how Department efforts advanced specific 
        economic and commercial objectives and led to successes for the 
        United States or other private sector actors overseas; and
            (2) focus on customer satisfaction with Department services 
        and assistance.
    (b) Plan for Ensuring Complete Data for Performance Measures.--As 
part of the review required under subsection (a), the Secretary shall 
include a plan for ensuring that--
            (1) the Department, both at its main headquarters and at 
        domestic and overseas posts, maintains and fully updates data 
        on performance measures; and
            (2) Department leadership and the appropriate congressional 
        committees can evaluate the extent to which the Department is 
        advancing United States economic and commercial interests 
        abroad through meeting performance targets.
    (c) Report on Private Sector Surveys.--The Secretary shall prepare 
a report that lists and describes all the methods through which the 
Department conducts surveys of the private sector to measure private 
sector satisfaction with assistance and services provided by the 
Department to advance private sector economic and commercial goals in 
foreign markets.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 90 days after conducting the review 
pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees--
            (1) the revised performance metrics required under 
        subsection (a); and
            (2) the report required under subsection (c).

SEC. 6503. CHIEF OF MISSION ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITIES.

    Section 207 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3927) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Embassy Economic Team.--
            ``(1) Coordination and supervision.--Each chief of mission 
        shall coordinate and supervise the implementation of all United 
        States economic policy interests within the host country in 
        which the diplomatic mission is located, among all United 
        States Government departments and agencies present in such 
        country.
            ``(2) Accountability.--The chief of mission is responsible 
        for the performance of the diplomatic mission in advancing 
        United States economic policy interests within the host 
        country.
            ``(3) Mission economic team.--The chief of mission shall 
        designate appropriate embassy staff to form a mission economic 
        team that--
                    ``(A) monitors notable economic, commercial, and 
                investment-related developments in the host country; 
                and
                    ``(B) develops plans and strategies for advancing 
                United States economic and commercial interests in the 
                host country, including--
                            ``(i) tracking legislative, regulatory, 
                        judicial, and policy developments that could 
                        affect United States economic, commercial, and 
                        investment interests;
                            ``(ii) advocating for best practices with 
                        respect to policy and regulatory developments;
                            ``(iii) conducting regular analyses of 
                        market systems, trends, prospects, and 
                        opportunities for value-addition, including 
                        risk assessments and constraints analyses of 
                        key sectors and of United States strategic 
                        competitiveness, and other reporting on 
                        commercial opportunities and investment 
                        climate; and
                            ``(iv) providing recommendations for 
                        responding to developments that may adversely 
                        affect United States economic and commercial 
                        interests.''.

SEC. 6504. DIRECTION TO EMBASSY DEAL TEAMS.

    (a) Purposes.--The purposes of deal teams at United States 
embassies and consulates are--
            (1) to promote a private sector-led approach--
                    (A) to advance economic growth and job creation 
                that is tailored, as appropriate, to specific economic 
                sectors; and
                    (B) to advance strategic partnerships;
            (2) to prioritize efforts--
                    (A) to identify commercial and investment 
                opportunities;
                    (B) to advocate for improvements in the business 
                and investment climate;
                    (C) to engage and consult with private sector 
                partners; and
                    (D) to report on the activities described in 
                subparagraphs (A) through (C), in accordance with the 
                applicable requirements under sections 706 and 707 of 
                the Championing American Business Through Diplomacy Act 
                of 2019 (22 U.S.C. 9902 and 9903);
            (3)(A)(i) to identify trade and investment opportunities 
        for United States companies in foreign markets; or
                    (ii) to assist with existing trade and investment 
                opportunities already identified by United States 
                companies; and
            (B) to deploy United States Government economic and other 
        tools to help such United States companies to secure their 
        objectives;
            (4) to identify and facilitate opportunities for entities 
        in a host country to increase exports to, or investment in, the 
        United States in order to grow two-way trade and investment;
            (5) to modernize, streamline, and improve access to 
        resources and services designed to promote increased trade and 
        investment opportunities;
            (6) to identify and secure United States or allied 
        government support of strategic projects, such as ports, 
        railways, energy production and distribution, critical minerals 
        development, telecommunications networks, and other critical 
        infrastructure projects vulnerable to predatory investment by 
        an authoritarian country or entity in such country where 
        support or investment serves an important United States 
        interest;
            (7) to coordinate across the Unites States Government to 
        ensure the appropriate and most effective use of United States 
        Government tools to support United States economic, commercial, 
        and investment objectives; and
            (8) to coordinate with the multi-agency DC Central Deal 
        Team, established in February 2020, on the matters described in 
        paragraphs (1) through (7) and other relevant matters.
    (b) Clarification.--A deal team may be composed of the personnel 
comprising the mission economic team formed pursuant to section 
207(e)(3) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, as added by section 6503.
    (c) Restrictions.--A deal team may not provide support for, or 
assist a United States person with a transaction involving, a 
government, or an entity owned or controlled by a government, if the 
Secretary determines that such government--
            (1) has repeatedly provided support for acts of 
        international terrorism, as described in--
                    (A) section 1754(c)(1)(A)(i) of the Export Control 
                Reform Act of 2018 (subtitle B of title XVII of Public 
                Law 115-232);
                    (B) section 620A(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act 
                of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2371(a));
                    (C) section 40(d) of the Arms Export Control Act 
                (22 U.S.C. 2780(d)); or
                    (D) any other relevant provision of law; or
            (2) has engaged in an activity that would trigger a 
        restriction under section 116(a) or 502B(a)(2) of the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151n(a) and 2304(a)(2)) or 
        any other relevant provision of law.
    (d) Further Restrictions.--
            (1) Prohibition on support of sanctioned persons.--Deal 
        teams may not carry out activities prohibited under United 
        States sanctions laws or regulations, including dealings with 
        persons on the list of specially designated persons and blocked 
        persons maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of 
        the Department of the Treasury, except to the extent otherwise 
        authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury or the Secretary.
            (2) Prohibition on support of activities subject to 
        sanctions.--Any person receiving support from a deal team must 
        be in compliance with all United States sanctions laws and 
        regulations as a condition for receiving such assistance.
    (e) Chief of Mission Authority and Accountability.--The chief of 
mission to a foreign country--
            (1) is the designated leader of a deal team in such 
        country; and
            (2) shall be held accountable for the performance and 
        effectiveness of United States deal teams in such country.
    (f) Guidance Cable.--The Department shall send out regular guidance 
on Deal Team efforts by an All Diplomatic and Consular Posts (referred 
to in this section as ``ALDAC'') that--
            (1) describes the role of deal teams; and
            (2) includes relevant and up-to-date information to enhance 
        the effectiveness of deal teams in a country.
    (g) Confidentiality of Information.--
            (1) In general.--In preparing the cable required under 
        subsection (f), the Secretary shall protect from disclosure any 
        proprietary information of a United States person marked as 
        business confidential information unless the person submitting 
        such information--
                    (A) had notice, at the time of submission, that 
                such information would be released by; or
                    (B) subsequently consents to the release of such 
                information.
            (2) Treatment as trade secrets.--Proprietary information 
        obtained by the United States Government from a United States 
        person pursuant to the activities of deal teams shall be--
                    (A) considered to be trade secrets and commercial 
                or financial information (as such terms are used under 
                section 552b(c)(4) of title 5, United States Code); and
                    (B) exempt from disclosure without the express 
                approval of the person.
    (h) Sunset.--The requirements under subsections (f) through (h) 
shall terminate on the date that is 5 years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 6505. ESTABLISHMENT OF A ``DEAL TEAM OF THE YEAR'' AWARD.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a new award, to 
be known as the ``Deal Team of the Year Award'', and annually present 
the award to a deal team at one United States mission in each region to 
recognize outstanding achievements in supporting a United States 
company or companies pursuing commercial deals abroad or in identifying 
new deal prospects for United States companies.
    (b) Award Content.--
            (1) Department of state.--Each member of a deal team 
        receiving an award pursuant to subsection (a) shall receive a 
        certificate that is signed by the Secretary and--
                    (A) in the case of a member of the Foreign Service, 
                is included in the next employee evaluation report; or
                    (B) in the case of a Civil Service employee, is 
                included in the next annual performance review.
            (2) Other federal agencies.--If an award is presented 
        pursuant to subsection (a) to a Federal Government employee who 
        is not employed by the Department, the employing agency may 
        determine whether to provide such employee any recognition or 
        benefits in addition to the recognition or benefits provided by 
        the Department.
    (c) Eligibility.--Any interagency economics team at a United States 
overseas mission under chief of mission authority that assists United 
States companies with identifying, navigating, and securing trade and 
investment opportunities in a foreign country or that facilitates 
beneficial foreign investment into the United States is eligible for an 
award under this section.
    (d) Report.--Not later than the last day of the fiscal year in 
which awards are presented pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary 
shall submit a report to the appropriate congressional committees that 
includes--
            (1) each mission receiving a Deal Team of the Year Award.
            (2) the names and agencies of each awardee within the 
        recipient deal teams; and
            (3) a detailed description of the reason such deal teams 
        received such award.

                      TITLE LXVI--PUBLIC DIPLOMACY

SEC. 6601. PUBLIC DIPLOMACY OUTREACH.

    (a) Coordination of Resources.--The Administrator of the United 
States Agency for International Development and the Secretary shall 
direct public affairs sections at United States embassies and USAID 
Mission Program Officers at USAID missions to coordinate, enhance and 
prioritize resources for public diplomacy and awareness campaigns 
around United States diplomatic and development efforts, including 
through--
            (1) the utilization of new media technology for maximum 
        public engagement; and
            (2) enact coordinated comprehensive community outreach to 
        increase public awareness and understanding and appreciation of 
        United States diplomatic and development efforts.
    (b) Development Outreach and Coordination Officers.--USAID should 
prioritize hiring of additional Development Outreach and Coordination 
officers in USAID missions to support the purposes of subsection (a).
    (c) Best Practices.--The Secretary and the Administrator of USAID 
shall identify 10 countries in which Embassies and USAID missions have 
successfully executed efforts, including monitoring and evaluation of 
such efforts, described in (a) and develop best practices to be turned 
into Department and USAID guidance.

SEC. 6602. MODIFICATION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR RADIO FREE EUROPE/RADIO 
              LIBERTY.

    In section 308(h) of the United States International Broadcasting 
Act of 1994 (22 U.S.C. 6207(h)) is amended--
            (1) by striking subparagraphs (1), (3), and (5); and
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (4) as paragraphs 
        (1) and (2), respectively.

SEC. 6603. INTERNATIONAL BROADCASTING.

    (a) Voice of America.--Section 303 of the United States 
International Broadcasting Act of 1994 (22 U.S.C. 6202) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Voice of America Operations and Structure.--
            ``(1) Operations.--The Director of the Voice of America 
        (VOA)--
                    ``(A) shall direct and supervise the operations of 
                VOA, including making all major decisions relating its 
                staffing; and
                    ``(B) may utilize any authorities made available to 
                the United States Agency for Global Media or to its 
                Chief Executive Officer under this Act or under any 
                other Act to carry out its operations in an effective 
                manner.
            ``(2) Plan.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Director of VOA shall submit to the 
        Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Homeland 
        Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Homeland 
        Security of the House of Representatives a plan to ensure that 
        the personnel structure of VOA is sufficient to effectively 
        carry out the principles described in subsection (c).''.
    (b) Appointment of Chief Executive Officer.--Section 304 of such 
Act (22 U.S.C. 6203) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``as an entity described 
        in section 104 of title 5, United States Code'' and inserting 
        ``under the direction of the International Broadcasting 
        Advisory Board''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)(1), by striking the second sentence 
        and inserting the following: ``Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, when a vacancy arises, until such time as a 
        Chief Executive Officer, to whom sections 3345 through 3349b of 
        title 5, United States Code, shall not apply, is appointed and 
        confirmed by the Senate, an acting Chief Executive Officer 
        shall be appointed by the International Broadcasting Advisory 
        Board and shall continue to serve and exercise the authorities 
        and powers under this title as the sole means of filling such 
        vacancy, for the duration of the vacancy. In the absence of a 
        quorum on the International Broadcasting Advisory Board, the 
        first principal deputy of the United States Agency for Global 
        Media shall serve as acting Chief Executive Officer.''.
    (c) Chief Executive Officer Authorities.--Section 305(a)(1) of such 
Act (22 U.S.C. 6204(a)(1)) is amended by striking ``To supervise all'' 
and inserting ``To oversee, coordinate, and provide strategic direction 
for''.
    (d) International Broadcasting Advisory Board.--Section 306(a) of 
such Act (22 U.S.C. 6205(a)) is amended by striking ``advise the Chief 
Executive Officer of'' and inserting ``oversee and advise the Chief 
Executive Officer and''.
    (e) Radio Free Africa; Radio Free Americas.--Not later than 180 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Chief Executive 
Officer of the United States Agency for Global Media shall submit a 
report to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, the 
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives that details the 
financial and other resources that would be required to establish and 
operate 2 nonprofit organizations, modeled after Radio Free Europe/
Radio Liberty and Radio Free Asia, for the purposes of providing 
accurate, uncensored, and reliable news and information to--
            (1) the region of Africa, with respect to Radio Free 
        Africa; and
            (2) the region of Latin America and the Caribbean, with 
        respect to Radio Free Americas.

SEC. 6604. JOHN LEWIS CIVIL RIGHTS FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act 
of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2451 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:

``SEC. 115. JOHN LEWIS CIVIL RIGHTS FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Establishment.--There is established the John Lewis Civil 
Rights Fellowship Program (referred to in this section as the 
`Fellowship Program') within the J. William Fulbright Educational 
Exchange Program.
    ``(b) Purposes.--The purposes of the Fellowship Program are--
            ``(1) to honor the legacy of Representative John Lewis by 
        promoting a greater understanding of the history and tenets of 
        nonviolent civil rights movements; and
            ``(2) to advance foreign policy priorities of the United 
        States by promoting studies, research, and international 
        exchange in the subject of nonviolent movements that 
        established and protected civil rights around the world.
    ``(c) Administration.--The Bureau of Educational and Cultural 
Affairs (referred to in this section as the `Bureau') shall administer 
the Fellowship Program in accordance with policy guidelines established 
by the Board, in consultation with the binational Fulbright Commissions 
and United States Embassies.
    ``(d) Selection of Fellows.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Board shall annually select 
        qualified individuals to participate in the Fellowship Program. 
        The Bureau may determine the number of fellows selected each 
        year, which, whenever feasible, shall be not fewer than 25.
            ``(2) Outreach.--
                    ``(A) In general.--To the extent practicable, the 
                Bureau shall conduct outreach at institutions, 
                including--
                            ``(i) minority serving institutions, 
                        including historically Black colleges and 
                        universities; and
                            ``(ii) other appropriate institutions, as 
                        determined by the Bureau.
                    ``(B) Definitions.--In this paragraph:
                            ``(i) Historically black college and 
                        university.--The term `historically Black 
                        college and university' has the meaning given 
                        the term `part B institution' in section 322 of 
                        the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
                        1061).
                            ``(ii) Minority serving institution.--The 
                        term `minority-serving institution' means an 
                        eligible institution under section 371(a) of 
                        the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
                        1067q(a)).
    ``(e) Fellowship Orientation.--Annually, the Bureau shall organize 
and administer a fellowship orientation, which shall--
            ``(1) be held in Washington, D.C., or at another location 
        selected by the Bureau; and
            ``(2) include programming to honor the legacy of 
        Representative John Lewis.
    ``(f) Structure.--
            ``(1) Work plan.--To carry out the purposes described in 
        subsection (b)--
                    ``(A) each fellow selected pursuant to subsection 
                (d) shall arrange an internship or research placement--
                            ``(i) with a nongovernmental organization, 
                        academic institution, or other organization 
                        approved by the Bureau; and
                            ``(ii) in a country with an operational 
                        Fulbright U.S. Student Program; and
                    ``(B) the Bureau shall, for each fellow, approve a 
                work plan that identifies the target objectives for the 
                fellow, including specific duties and responsibilities 
                relating to those objectives.
            ``(2) Conferences; presentations.--Each fellow shall--
                    ``(A) attend a fellowship orientation organized and 
                administered by the Bureau under subsection (e);
                    ``(B) not later than the date that is 1 year after 
                the end of the fellowship period, attend a fellowship 
                summit organized and administered by the Bureau, 
                which--
                            ``(i) whenever feasible, shall be held in 
                        Atlanta, Georgia, or another location of 
                        importance to the civil rights movement in the 
                        United States; and
                            ``(ii) may coincide with other events 
                        facilitated by the Bureau; and
                    ``(C) at such summit, give a presentation on 
                lessons learned during the period of fellowship.
            ``(3) Fellowship period.--Each fellowship under this 
        section shall continue for a period determined by the Bureau, 
        which, whenever feasible, shall be not fewer than 10 months.
    ``(g) Fellowship Award.--The Bureau shall provide each fellow under 
this section with an allowance that is equal to the amount needed for--
            ``(1) the reasonable costs of the fellow during the 
        fellowship period; and
            ``(2) travel and lodging expenses related to attending the 
        orientation and summit required under subsection (e)(2).
    ``(h) Annual Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
completion of the Fellowship Program by the initial cohort of fellows 
selected under subsection (d), and annually thereafter, the Secretary 
of State shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
Representatives a report on the implementation of the Fellowship 
Program, including--
            ``(1) a description of the demographics of the cohort of 
        fellows who completed a fellowship during the preceding 1-year 
        period;
            ``(2) a description of internship and research placements, 
        and research projects selected by such cohort, under the 
        Fellowship Program, including feedback from--
                    ``(A) such cohort on implementation of the 
                Fellowship Program; and
                    ``(B) the Secretary on lessons learned; and
            ``(3) an analysis of trends relating to the diversity of 
        each cohort of fellows and the topics of projects completed 
        since the establishment of the Fellowship Program.''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendments to the Mutual Educational 
and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961.--Section 112(a) of the Mutual 
Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 ( 22 U.S.C. 2460(a)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (8), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (9), by striking the period and inserting 
        ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(10) the John Lewis Civil Rights Fellowship Program 
        established under section 115, which provides funding for 
        international internships and research placements for early- to 
        mid-career individuals from the United States to study 
        nonviolent civil rights movements in self-arranged placements 
        with universities or nongovernmental organizations in foreign 
        countries.''.

SEC. 6605. DOMESTIC ENGAGEMENT AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS.

    (a) Strategy Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall develop a strategy to 
explain to the American people the value of the work of the Department 
and United States foreign policy to advancing the national security of 
the United States. The strategy shall include--
            (1) tools to inform the American people about the non-
        partisan importance of United States diplomacy and foreign 
        relations and to utilize public diplomacy to meet the United 
        States' national security priorities;
            (2) efforts to reach the widest possible audience of 
        Americans, including those who historically have not had 
        exposure to United States foreign policy efforts and 
        priorities;
            (3) additional staffing and resource needs including--
                    (A) domestic positions within the Bureau of Global 
                Public Affairs to focus on engagement with the American 
                people as outlined in paragraph (1);
                    (B) positions within the Bureau of Educational and 
                Cultural Affairs to enhance program and reach the 
                widest possible audience;
                    (C) increasing the number of fellowship and detail 
                programs that place Foreign Service and civil service 
                employees outside the Department for a limited time, 
                including Pearson Fellows, Reta Joe Lewis Local 
                Diplomats, Brookings Fellows, and Georgetown Fellows; 
                and
                    (D) recommendations for increasing participation in 
                the Hometown Diplomats program and evaluating this 
                program as well as other opportunities for Department 
                officers to engage with American audiences while 
                traveling within the United States.

SEC. 6606. EXTENSION OF GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT CENTER.

    Section 1287(j) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2017 (22 U.S.C. 2656 note) is amended by striking ``on the 
date that is 8 years after the date of the enactment of this Act'' and 
inserting ``on September 30, 2026''.

SEC. 6607. PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT.

    Section 5603(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117-81) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) United States Information and Educational Exchange 
        Act of 1948 (Public Law 80-402).''.

SEC. 6608. MODERNIZATION AND ENHANCEMENT STRATEGY.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary shall submit a strategy to the appropriate 
congressional committees for--
            (1) modernizing and increasing the operational and 
        programming capacity of American Spaces and American Corners 
        throughout the world, including by leveraging public-private 
        partnerships;
            (2) providing salaries to locally employed staff of 
        American Spaces and American Corners; and
            (3) providing opportunities for United States businesses 
        and nongovernmental organizations to better utilize American 
        Spaces.

                       TITLE LXVII--OTHER MATTERS

SEC. 6701. INTERNSHIPS OF UNITED STATES NATIONALS AT INTERNATIONAL 
              ORGANIZATIONS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of State is authorized to bolster 
efforts to increase the number of United States citizens representative 
of the American people occupying positions in the United Nations 
system, agencies, and commissions, and in other international 
organizations, including by awarding grants to educational institutions 
and students.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the 
appropriate congressional committees that identifies--
            (1) the number of United States citizens who are involved 
        in internship programs at international organizations;
            (2) the distribution of the individuals described in 
        paragraph (1) among various international organizations; and
            (3) grants, programs, and other activities that are being 
        utilized to recruit and fund United States citizens to 
        participate in internship programs at international 
        organizations.
    (c) Eligibility.--An individual referred to in subsection (a) is an 
individual who--
            (1) is enrolled at or received their degree within two 
        years from--
                    (A) an institution of higher education; or
                    (B) an institution of higher education based 
                outside the United States, as determined by the 
                Secretary of State; and
            (2) is a citizen of the United States.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated $1,500,000 for the Department of State for fiscal year 
2024 to carry out the grant program authorized under subsection (a).

SEC. 6702. TRAINING FOR INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS.

    (a) Training Programs.--Section 708 of the Foreign Service Act of 
1980 (22 U.S.C. 4028) is amended by adding at the end of the following 
new subsection:
    ``(e) Training in Multilateral Diplomacy.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with 
        other senior officials as appropriate, shall establish training 
        courses on--
                    ``(A) the conduct of diplomacy at international 
                organizations and other multilateral institutions; and
                    ``(B) broad-based multilateral negotiations of 
                international instruments.
            ``(2) Required training.--Members of the Service, including 
        appropriate chiefs of mission and other officers who are 
        assigned to United States missions representing the United 
        States to international organizations and other multilateral 
        institutions or who are assigned in other positions that have 
        as their primary responsibility formulation of policy related 
        to such organizations and institutions, or participation in 
        negotiations of international instruments, shall receive 
        specialized training in the areas described in paragraph (1) 
        prior to the beginning of service for such assignment or, if 
        receiving such training at that time is not practical, within 
        the first year of beginning such assignment.''.
    (b) Training for Department Employees.--The Secretary of State 
shall ensure that employees of the Department of State who are assigned 
to positions described in paragraph (2) of subsection (e) of section 
708 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (as added by subsection (a) of 
this section), including members of the civil service or general 
service, or who are seconded to international organizations for a 
period of at least one year, receive training described in such 
subsection and participate in other such courses as the Secretary may 
recommend to build or augment identifiable skills that would be useful 
for such Department officials representing United States interests at 
these institutions and organizations.

SEC. 6703. MODIFICATION TO TRANSPARENCY ON INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS AND 
              NON-BINDING INSTRUMENTS.

    Section 112b of title 1, United States Code, as most recently 
amended by section 5947 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263; 136 Stat. 
3476), is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (h) through (l) as 
        subsections (i) through (m), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (g) the following:
    ``(h)(1) If the Secretary is aware or has reason to believe that 
the requirements of subsection (a), (b), or (c) have not been fulfilled 
with respect to an international agreement or qualifying non-binding 
instrument, the Secretary shall--
            ``(A) immediately bring the matter to the attention of the 
        office or agency responsible for the agreement or qualifying 
        non-binding instrument; and
            ``(B) request the office or agency to provide within 7 days 
        the text or other information necessary to fulfill the 
        requirements of the relevant subsection.
    ``(2) Upon receiving the text or other information requested 
pursuant to paragraph (1), the Secretary shall--
            ``(A) fulfill the requirements of subsection (a), (b), or 
        (c), as the case may be, with respect to the agreement or 
        qualifying non-binding instrument concerned--
                    ``(i) by including such text or other information 
                in the next submission required by subsection (a)(1);
                    ``(ii) by providing such information in writing to 
                the Majority Leader of the Senate, the Minority Leader 
                of the Senate, the Speaker of the House of 
                Representatives, the Minority Leader of the House of 
                Representatives, and the appropriate congressional 
                committees before provision of the submission described 
                in clause (i); or
                    ``(iii) in relation to subsection (b), by making 
                the text of the agreement or qualifying non-binding 
                instrument and the information described in 
                subparagraphs (A)(iii) and (B)(iii) of subsection 
                (a)(1) relating to the agreement or instrument 
                available to the public on the website of the 
                Department of State within 15 days of receiving the 
                text or other information requested pursuant to 
                paragraph (1); and
            ``(B) provide to the Majority Leader of the Senate, the 
        Minority Leader of the Senate, the Speaker of the House of 
        Representatives, the Minority Leader of the House of 
        Representatives, and the appropriate congressional committees, 
        either in the next submission required by subsection (a)(1) or 
        before such submission, a written statement explaining the 
        reason for the delay in fulfilling the requirements of 
        subsection (a), (b), or (c), as the case may be.''.

SEC. 6704. REPORT ON PARTNER FORCES UTILIZING UNITED STATES SECURITY 
              ASSISTANCE IDENTIFIED AS USING HUNGER AS A WEAPON OF WAR.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the United States recognizes the link between armed 
        conflict and conflict-induced food insecurity;
            (2) Congress recognizes and condemns the role of nefarious 
        security actors, including state and non-state armed groups, 
        who have utilized hunger as a weapon of war, including through 
        the unanimous adoption of House of Representatives Resolution 
        922 and Senate Resolution 669 relating to ``[c]ondemning the 
        use of hunger as a weapon of war and recognizing the effect of 
        conflict on global food security and famine''; and
            (3) the United States should use the diplomatic and 
        humanitarian tools at our disposal to not only fight global 
        hunger, mitigate the spread of conflict, and promote critical, 
        lifesaving assistance, but also hold perpetrators using hunger 
        as a weapon of war to account.
    (b) Definitions.--In this paragraph:
            (1) Hunger as a weapon of war.--The term ``hunger as a 
        weapon of war'' means--
                    (A) intentional starvation of civilians;
                    (B) intentional and reckless destruction, removal, 
                looting, or rendering useless objects necessary for 
                food production and distribution, such as farmland, 
                markets, mills, food processing and storage facilities, 
                food stuffs, crops, livestock, agricultural assets, 
                waterways, water systems, drinking water facilities and 
                supplies, and irrigation networks;
                    (C) undue denial of humanitarian access and 
                deprivation of objects indispensable to people's 
                survival, such as food supplies and nutrition 
                resources; and
                    (D) willful interruption of market systems for 
                populations in need, including through the prevention 
                of travel and manipulation of currency exchange.
            (2) Security assistance.--The term ``security assistance'' 
        means assistance meeting the definition of ``security 
        assistance'' under section 502B of the Foreign Assistance Act 
        of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2304).
    (c) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with the 
Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
Development, and the Secretary of Defense shall submit a report to the 
appropriate congressional committees, the Committee on Armed Services 
of the Senate, and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
Representatives regarding--
            (1) United States-funded security assistance and 
        cooperation; and
            (2) whether the governments and entities receiving such 
        assistance have or are currently using hunger as a weapon of 
        war.
    (d) Elements.--The report required under subsection (c) shall--
            (1) identify countries receiving United States-funded 
        security assistance or participating in security programs and 
        activities, including in coordination with the Department of 
        Defense, that are currently experiencing famine-like conditions 
        as a result of conflict;
            (2) describe the actors and actions taken by such actors in 
        the countries identified pursuant to paragraph (1) who are 
        utilizing hunger as a weapon of war; and
            (3) describe any current or existing plans to continue 
        providing United States-funded security assistance to recipient 
        countries.
    (e) Form.--The report required under subsection (c) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 6705. INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS AND INVESTMENTS BY THE UNITED STATES 
              AND PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.

    Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary, in coordination with the Administrator of the United 
States Agency for International Development and the Chief Executive 
Officer of the Development Finance Corporation, shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees, the Committee on Appropriations 
of the Senate, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives a report regarding the opportunities and costs of 
infrastructure projects in Middle East, African, and Latin American and 
Caribbean countries, which shall--
            (1) describe the nature and total funding of United States 
        infrastructure investments and construction in Middle East, 
        African, and Latin American and Caribbean countries, and that 
        of United States allies and partners in the same regions;
            (2) describe the nature and total funding of infrastructure 
        investments and construction by the People's Republic of China 
        in Middle East, African, and Latin American and Caribbean 
        countries;
            (3) assess the national security threats posed by the 
        infrastructure investment gap between the People's Republic of 
        China and the United States and United States allies and 
        partners, including--
                    (A) infrastructure, such as ports;
                    (B) access to critical and strategic minerals;
                    (C) digital and telecommunication infrastructure;
                    (D) threats to supply chains; and
                    (E) general favorability towards the People's 
                Republic of China and the United States and United 
                States' allies and partners among Middle East, African, 
                and Latin American and Caribbean countries;
            (4) assess the opportunities and challenges for companies 
        based in the United States to invest in infrastructure projects 
        in Middle East, African, and Latin American and Caribbean 
        countries;
            (5) describe options for the United States Government to 
        undertake to increase support for United States businesses 
        engaged in large-scale infrastructure projects in Middle East, 
        African, and Latin American and Caribbean countries; and
            (6) identify regional infrastructure priorities, ranked 
        according to United States national interests, in Middle East, 
        African, and Latin American and Caribbean countries.

SEC. 6706. SPECIAL ENVOYS.

    (a) Review.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall conduct a review of all 
special envoy positions to determine--
            (1) which special envoy positions are needed to accomplish 
        the mission of the Department;
            (2) which special envoy positions could be absorbed into 
        the Department's existing bureau structure;
            (3) which special envoy positions were established by an 
        Act of Congress; and
            (4) which special envoy positions were created by the 
        Executive Branch without explicit congressional approval.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 60 days after the completion of the 
review required under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit a 
report to the appropriate congressional committees that includes--
            (1) a list of every special envoy position in the 
        Department;
            (2) a detailed justification of the need for each special 
        envoy, if warranted;
            (3) a list of the special envoy positions that could be 
        absorbed into the Department's existing bureau structure 
        without compromising the mission of the Department;
            (4) a list of the special envoy positions that were created 
        by an Act of Congress; and
            (5) a list of the special envoy positions that are not 
        expressly authorized by statute.

SEC. 6707. US-ASEAN CENTER.

    (a) Defined Term.--In this section, the term ``ASEAN'' means the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations.
    (b) Establishment.--The Secretary is authorized to enter into a 
public-private partnership for the purposes of establishing a US-ASEAN 
Center in the United States to support United States economic and 
cultural engagement with Southeast Asia.
    (c) Functions.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the US-
ASEAN Center established pursuant to subsection (b) may--
            (1) provide grants for research to support and elevate the 
        importance of the US-ASEAN partnership;
            (2) facilitate activities to strengthen US-ASEAN trade and 
        investment;
            (3) expand economic and technological relationships between 
        ASEAN countries and the United States into new areas of 
        cooperation;
            (4) provide training to United States citizens and citizens 
        of ASEAN countries that improve people-to-people ties;
            (5) develop educational programs to increase awareness for 
        the United States and ASEAN countries on the importance of 
        relations between the United States and ASEAN countries; and
            (6) carry out other activities the Secretary considers 
        necessary to strengthen ties between the United States and 
        ASEAN countries and achieve the objectives of the US-ASEAN 
        Center.

SEC. 6708. BRIEFINGS ON THE UNITED STATES-EUROPEAN UNION TRADE AND 
              TECHNOLOGY COUNCIL.

    It is the sense of Congress that the United States-European Union 
Trade and Technology Council is an important forum for the United 
States and in the European Union to engage on transatlantic trade, 
investment, and engagement on matters related to critical and emerging 
technology and that the Department should provide regular updates to 
the appropriate congressional committees on the deliverables and policy 
initiatives announced at United States-European Union Trade and 
Technology Council ministerials

SEC. 6709. MODIFICATION AND REPEAL OF REPORTS.

    (a) Country Reports on Human Rights Practices.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall examine the production 
        of the 2023 and subsequent annual Country Reports on Human 
        Rights Practices by the Assistant Secretary for Democracy, 
        Human Rights, and Labor as required under sections 116(d) and 
        502B(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
        2151n(d), 2304(b)) to maximize--
                    (A) cost and personnel efficiencies;
                    (B) the potential use of data and analytic tools 
                and visualization; and
                    (C) advancement of the modernization agenda for the 
                Department announced by the Secretary on October 27, 
                2021.
            (2) Transnational repression amendments to annual country 
        reports on human rights practices.--Section 116(d) of the 
        Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151n(d)) is amended 
        by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(13) Wherever applicable, a description of the nature and 
        extent of acts of transnational repression that occurred during 
        the preceding year, including identification of--
                    ``(A) incidents in which a government harassed, 
                intimidated, or killed individuals outside of their 
                internationally recognized borders and the patterns of 
                such repression among repeat offenders;
                    ``(B) countries in which such transnational 
                repression occurs and the role of the governments of 
                such countries in enabling, preventing, mitigating, and 
                responding to such acts;
                    ``(C) the tactics used by the governments of 
                countries identified pursuant to subparagraph (A), 
                including the actions identified and any new techniques 
                observed;
                    ``(D) in the case of digital surveillance and 
                harassment, the type of technology or platform, 
                including social media, smart city technology, health 
                tracking systems, general surveillance technology, and 
                data access, transfer, and storage procedures, used by 
                the governments of countries identified pursuant to 
                subparagraph (A) for such actions; and
                    ``(E) groups and types of individuals targeted by 
                acts of transnational repression in each country in 
                which such acts occur.''.
    (b) Elimination of Obsolete Reports.--
            (1) Annual reports relating to funding mechanisms for 
        telecommunications security and semiconductors.--Division H of 
        the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116-283) is amended--
                    (A) in section 9202(a)(2) (47 U.S.C. 906(a)(2))--
                            (i) by striking subparagraph (C); and
                            (ii) by redesignating subparagraph (D) as 
                        subparagraph (C); and
                    (B) in section 9905 (15 U.S.C. 4655)--
                            (i) by striking subsection (c); and
                            (ii) by redesignating subsection (d) as 
                        subsection (c).
            (2) Reports relating to foreign assistance to counter 
        russian influence and media organizations controlled by 
        russia.--The Countering Russian Influence in Europe and Eurasia 
        Act of 2017 (title II of Public Law 115-44) is amended--
                    (A) in section 254(e)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)--
                                    (I) by striking ``In general.--'';
                                    (II) by redesignating subparagraphs 
                                (A), (B), and (C) as paragraphs (1), 
                                (2), and (3), respectively, and moving 
                                such paragraphs 2 ems to the left; and
                            (ii) by striking paragraph (2); and
                    (B) by striking section 255.
            (3) Annual report on promoting the rule of law in the 
        russian federation.--Section 202 of the Russia and Moldova 
        Jackson-Vanik Repeal and Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law 
        Accountability Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-208) is amended by 
        striking subsection (a).
            (4) Annual report on advancing freedom and democracy.--
        Section 2121 of the Advance Democratic Values, Address 
        Nondemocratic Countries, and Enhance Democracy Act of 2007 
        (title XXI of Public Law 110-53) is amended by striking 
        subsection (c).
            (5) Annual reports on united states-vietnam human rights 
        dialogue meetings.--Section 702 of the Foreign Relations 
        Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003 (22 U.S.C. 2151n note) is 
        repealed.

SEC. 6710. MODIFICATION OF BUILD ACT OF 2018 TO PRIORITIZE PROJECTS 
              THAT ADVANCE NATIONAL SECURITY.

    Section 1412 of the Build Act of 2018 (22 U.S.C. 9612) is amended 
by adding at the end the following subsection:
    ``(d) Prioritization of National Security Interests.--The 
Corporation shall prioritize the provision of support under title II in 
projects that advance core national security interests of the United 
States with respect to the People's Republic of China.''.

SEC. 6711. PERMITTING FOR INTERNATIONAL BRIDGES.

    The International Bridge Act of 1972 (33 U.S.C. 535 et seq.) is 
amended by inserting after section 5 the following:

``SEC. 6. PERMITTING FOR INTERNATIONAL BRIDGES.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Eligible applicant.--The term `eligible applicant' 
        means an entity that has submitted an application for a 
        Presidential permit during the period beginning on December 1, 
        2020, and ending on December 31, 2024, for any of the 
        following:
                    ``(A) 1 or more international bridges in Webb 
                County, Texas.
                    ``(B) An international bridge in Cameron County, 
                Texas.
                    ``(C) An international bridge in Maverick County, 
                Texas.
            ``(2) Presidential permit.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `Presidential permit' 
                means--
                            ``(i) an approval by the President to 
                        construct, maintain, and operate an 
                        international bridge under section 4; or
                            ``(ii) an approval by the President to 
                        construct, maintain, and operate an 
                        international bridge pursuant to a process 
                        described in Executive Order 13867 (84 Fed. 
                        Reg. 15491; relating to Issuance of Permits 
                        With Respect to Facilities and Land 
                        Transportation Crossings at the International 
                        Boundaries of the United States) (or any 
                        successor Executive Order).
                    ``(B) Inclusion.--The term `Presidential permit' 
                includes an amendment to an approval described in 
                clause (i) or (ii) of subparagraph (A).
            ``(3) Secretary.--The term `Secretary' means the Secretary 
        of State.
    ``(b) Application.--An eligible applicant for a Presidential permit 
to construct, maintain, and operate an international bridge shall 
submit an application for the permit to the Secretary.
    ``(c) Recommendation.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date on 
        which the Secretary receives an application under subsection 
        (b), the Secretary shall make a recommendation to the 
        President--
                    ``(A) to grant the Presidential permit; or
                    ``(B) to deny the Presidential permit.
            ``(2) Consideration.--The sole basis for a recommendation 
        under paragraph (1) shall be whether the international bridge 
        is in the foreign policy interests of the United States.
    ``(d) Presidential Action.--
            ``(1) In general.--The President shall grant or deny the 
        Presidential permit for an application under subsection (b) by 
        not later than 60 days after the earlier of--
                    ``(A) the date on which the Secretary makes a 
                recommendation under subsection (c)(1); and
                    ``(B) the date on which the Secretary is required 
                to make a recommendation under subsection (c)(1).
            ``(2) No action.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), if 
                the President does not grant or deny the Presidential 
                permit for an application under subsection (b) by the 
                deadline described in paragraph (1), the Presidential 
                permit shall be considered to have been granted as of 
                that deadline.
                    ``(B) Requirement.--As a condition on a 
                Presidential permit considered to be granted under 
                subparagraph (A), the eligible applicant shall complete 
                all applicable environmental documents required 
                pursuant to Public Law 91-190 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
    ``(e) Document Requirements.--Notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, the Secretary shall not require an eligible applicant for a 
Presidential permit--
            ``(1) to include in the application under subsection (b) 
        environmental documents prepared pursuant to Public Law 91-190 
        (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); or
            ``(2) to have completed any environmental review under 
        Public Law 91-190 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) prior to the 
        President granting a Presidential permit under subsection (d).
    ``(f) Rules of Construction.--Nothing in this section--
            ``(1) prohibits the President from granting a Presidential 
        permit conditioned on the eligible applicant completing all 
        environmental documents pursuant to Public Law 91-190 (42 
        U.S.C. 4321 et seq.);
            ``(2) prohibits the Secretary from requesting a list of all 
        permits and approvals from Federal, State, and local agencies 
        that the eligible applicant believes are required in connection 
        with the international bridge, or a brief description of how 
        those permits and approvals will be acquired; or
            ``(3) exempts an eligible applicant from the requirement to 
        complete all environmental documents pursuant to Public Law 91-
        190 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) prior to construction of an 
        international bridge.''.

                      TITLE LXVIII--AUKUS MATTERS

SEC. 6801. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the 
                Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the 
                Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) AUKUS partnership.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``AUKUS partnership'' 
                means the enhanced trilateral security partnership 
                between Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United 
                States announced in September 2021.
                    (B) Pillars.--The AUKUS partnership includes the 
                following two pillars:
                            (i) Pillar One is focused on developing a 
                        pathway for Australia to acquire conventionally 
                        armed, nuclear-powered submarines.
                            (ii) Pillar Two is focused on enhancing 
                        trilateral collaboration on advanced defense 
                        capabilities, including hypersonic and counter 
                        hypersonic capabilities, quantum technologies, 
                        undersea technologies, and artificial 
                        intelligence.
            (3) International traffic in arms regulations.--The term 
        ``International Traffic in Arms Regulations'' means subchapter 
        M of chapter I of title 22, Code of Federal Regulations (or 
        successor regulations).

              Subtitle A--Outlining the AUKUS Partnership

SEC. 6811. STATEMENT OF POLICY ON THE AUKUS PARTNERSHIP.

    (a) Statement of Policy.--It is the policy of the United States 
that--
            (1) the AUKUS partnership is integral to United States 
        national security, increasing United States and allied 
        capability in the undersea domain of the Indo-Pacific, and 
        developing cutting edge military capabilities;
            (2) the transfer of conventionally armed, nuclear-powered 
        submarines to Australia, if implemented appropriately, will 
        position the United States and its allies to maintain peace and 
        security in the Indo-Pacific;
            (3) the transfer of conventionally armed, nuclear-powered 
        submarines to Australia will be safely implemented with the 
        highest nonproliferation standards in alignment with--
                    (A) safeguards established by the International 
                Atomic Energy Agency; and
                    (B) the Additional Protocol to the Agreement 
                between Australia and the International Atomic Energy 
                Agency for the application of safeguards in connection 
                with the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 
                Weapons, signed at Vienna September 23, 1997;
            (4) the United States will enter into a mutual defense 
        agreement with Australia, modeled on the 1958 bilateral mutual 
        defense agreement with the United Kingdom, for the sole purpose 
        of facilitating the transfer of naval nuclear propulsion 
        technology to Australia;
            (5) working with the United Kingdom and Australia to 
        develop and provide joint advanced military capabilities to 
        promote security and stability in the Indo-Pacific will have 
        tangible impacts on United States military effectiveness across 
        the world;
            (6) in order to better facilitate cooperation under Pillar 
        2 of the AUKUS partnership, it is imperative that every effort 
        be made to streamline United States export controls consistent 
        with necessary and reciprocal security safeguards on United 
        States technology at least comparable to those of the United 
        States;
            (7) the trade authorization mechanism for the AUKUS 
        partnership administered by the Department is a critical first 
        step in reimagining the United States export control system to 
        carry out the AUKUS partnership and expedite technology sharing 
        and defense trade among the United States, Australia, and the 
        United Kingdom; and
            (8) the vast majority of United States defense trade with 
        Australia is conducted through the Foreign Military Sales (FMS) 
        process, the preponderance of defense trade with the United 
        Kingdom is conducted through Direct Commercial Sales (DCS), and 
        efforts to streamline United States export controls should 
        focus on both Foreign Military Sales and Direct Commercial 
        Sales.

SEC. 6812. SENIOR ADVISOR FOR THE AUKUS PARTNERSHIP AT THE DEPARTMENT 
              OF STATE.

    (a) In General.--There shall be a Senior Advisor for the AUKUS 
partnership at the Department, who--
            (1) shall report directly to the Secretary; and
            (2) may not hold another position in the Department 
        concurrently while holding the position of Senior Advisor for 
        the AUKUS partnership.
    (b) Duties.--The Senior Advisor shall--
            (1) be responsible for coordinating efforts related to the 
        AUKUS partnership across the Department, including the bureaus 
        engaged in nonproliferation, defense trade, security 
        assistance, and diplomatic relations in the Indo-Pacific;
            (2) serve as the lead within the Department for 
        implementation of the AUKUS partnership in interagency 
        processes, consulting with counterparts in the Department of 
        Defense, the Department of Commerce, the Department of Energy, 
        the Office of Naval Reactors, and any other relevant agencies;
            (3) lead diplomatic efforts related to the AUKUS 
        partnership with other governments to explain how the 
        partnership will enhance security and stability in the Indo-
        Pacific; and
            (4) consult regularly with the appropriate congressional 
        committees, and keep such committees fully and currently 
        informed, on issues related to the AUKUS partnership, including 
        in relation to the AUKUS Pillar 1 objective of supporting 
        Australia's acquisition of conventionally armed, nuclear-
        powered submarines and the Pillar 2 objective of jointly 
        developing advanced military capabilities to support security 
        and stability in the Indo-Pacific, as affirmed by the President 
        of the United States, the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, 
        and the Prime Minister of Australia on April 5, 2022.
    (c) Personnel to Support the Senior Advisor.--The Secretary shall 
ensure that the Senior Advisor is adequately staffed, including through 
encouraging details, or assignment of employees of the Department, with 
expertise related to the implementation of the AUKUS partnership, 
including staff with expertise in--
            (1) nuclear policy, including nonproliferation;
            (2) defense trade and security cooperation, including 
        security assistance; and
            (3) relations with respect to political-military issues in 
        the Indo-Pacific and Europe.
    (d) Notification.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and not later than 90 days after a Senior 
Advisor assumes such position, the Secretary shall notify the 
appropriate congressional committees of the number of full-time 
equivalent positions, relevant expertise, and duties of any employees 
of the Department or detailees supporting the Senior Advisor.
    (e) Sunset.--
            (1) In general.--The position of the Senior Advisor for the 
        AUKUS partnership shall terminate on the date that is 8 years 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Renewal.--The Secretary may renew the position of the 
        Senior Advisor for the AUKUS partnership for 1 additional 
        period of 4 years, following notification to the appropriate 
        congressional committees of the renewal.

         Subtitle B--Authorization for AUKUS Submarine Training

SEC. 6823. AUSTRALIA, UNITED KINGDOM, AND UNITED STATES SUBMARINE 
              SECURITY TRAINING.

    (a) In General.--The President may transfer or export directly to 
private individuals in Australia defense services that may be 
transferred to the Government of Australia under the Arms Export 
Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.) to support the development of the 
submarine industrial base of Australia necessary for submarine security 
activities between Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United 
States, including if such individuals are not officers, employees, or 
agents of the Government of Australia.
    (b) Security Controls.--
            (1) In general.--Any defense service transferred or 
        exported under subsection (a) shall be subject to appropriate 
        security controls to ensure that any sensitive information 
        conveyed by such transfer or export is protected from 
        disclosure to persons unauthorized by the United States to 
        receive such information.
            (2) Certification.--Not later than 30 days before the first 
        transfer or export of a defense service under subsection (a), 
        and annually thereafter, the President shall certify to the 
        Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee 
        on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives that the 
        controls described in paragraph (1) will protect the 
        information described in such paragraph for the defense 
        services so transferred or exported.
    (c) Application of Requirements for Retransfer and Reexport.--Any 
person who receives any defense service transferred or exported under 
subsection (a) may retransfer or reexport such service to other persons 
only in accordance with the requirements of the Arms Export Control Act 
(22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.).

  Subtitle C--Streamlining and Protecting Transfers of United States 
                  Military Technology From Compromise

SEC. 6831. PRIORITY FOR AUSTRALIA AND THE UNITED KINGDOM IN FOREIGN 
              MILITARY SALES AND DIRECT COMMERCIAL SALES.

    (a) In General.--The President shall institute policies and 
procedures for letters of request from Australia and the United Kingdom 
to transfer defense articles and services under section 21 of the Arms 
Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2761) related to AUKUS to receive 
expedited consideration and processing relative to all other letters of 
request other than from Taiwan and Ukraine.
    (b) Technology Transfer Policy for Australia, Canada, and the 
United Kingdom.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Secretary of Defense, shall create an anticipatory release 
        policy for the transfer of technologies described in paragraph 
        (2) to Australia, the United Kingdom, and Canada through 
        Foreign Military Sales and Direct Commercial Sales that are not 
        covered by an exemption under the International Traffic in Arms 
        Regulations.
            (2) Capabilities described.--The capabilities described in 
        this paragraph are--
                    (A) Pillar One-related technologies associated with 
                submarine and associated combat systems; and
                    (B) Pillar Two-related technologies, including 
                hypersonic missiles, cyber capabilities, artificial 
                intelligence, quantum technologies, undersea 
                capabilities, and other advanced technologies.
            (3) Expedited decision-making.--Review of a transfer under 
        the policy established under paragraph (1) shall be subject to 
        an expedited decision-making process.
    (c) Interagency Policy and Guidance.--The Secretary and the 
Secretary of Defense shall jointly review and update interagency 
policies and implementation guidance related to requests for Foreign 
Military Sales and Direct Commercial Sales, including by incorporating 
the anticipatory release provisions of this section.

SEC. 6832. IDENTIFICATION AND PRE-CLEARANCE OF PLATFORMS, TECHNOLOGIES, 
              AND EQUIPMENT FOR SALE TO AUSTRALIA AND THE UNITED 
              KINGDOM THROUGH FOREIGN MILITARY SALES AND DIRECT 
              COMMERCIAL SALES.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
and on a biennial basis thereafter for 8 years, the President shall 
submit to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a report 
that includes a list of advanced military platforms, technologies, and 
equipment that are pre-cleared and prioritized for sale and release to 
Australia, the United Kingdom and Canada through the Foreign Military 
Sales and Direct Commercial Sales programs without regard to whether a 
letter of request or license to purchase such platforms, technologies, 
or equipment has been received from any of such country. Each list may 
include items that are not related to the AUKUS partnership but may not 
include items that are not covered by an exemption under the 
International Traffic in Arms Regulations except unmanned aerial or 
hypersonic systems.

SEC. 6833. EXPORT CONTROL EXEMPTIONS AND STANDARDS.

    (a) In General.--Section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act of 1976 
(22 U.S.C. 2778) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(l) AUKUS Defense Trade Cooperation.--
            ``(1) Exemption from licensing and approval requirements.--
        Subject to paragraph (2) and notwithstanding any other 
        provision of this section, the Secretary of State may exempt 
        from the licensing or other approval requirements of this 
        section exports and transfers (including reexports, 
        retransfers, temporary imports, and brokering activities) of 
        defense articles and defense services between or among the 
        United States, the United Kingdom, and Australia that--
                    ``(A) are not excluded by those countries;
                    ``(B) are not referred to in 
                subsection(j)(1)(C)(ii); and
                    ``(C) involve only persons or entities that are 
                approved by--
                            ``(i) the Secretary of State; and
                            ``(ii) the Ministry of Defense, the 
                        Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or other similar 
                        authority within those countries.
            ``(2) Limitation.--The authority provided in subparagraph 
        (1) shall not apply to any activity, including exports, 
        transfers, reexports, retransfers, temporary imports, or 
        brokering, of United States defense articles and defense 
        services involving any country or a person or entity of any 
        country other than the United States, the United Kingdom, and 
        Australia.''.
    (b) Required Standards of Export Controls.--The Secretary may only 
exercise the authority under subsection (l)(1) of section 38 of the 
Arms Export Control Act of 1976, as added by subsection (a) of this 
section, with respect to the United Kingdom or Australia 30 days after 
the Secretary submits to the appropriate congressional committees an 
unclassified certification and detailed unclassified assessment (which 
may include a classified annex) that the country concerned has 
implemented standards for a system of export controls that satisfies 
the elements of section 38(j)(2) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 
U.S.C. 2778(j)(2)) for United States-origin defense articles and 
defense services, and for controlling the provision of military 
training, that are comparable to those standards administered by the 
United States in effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Certain Requirements Not Applicable.--
            (1) In general.--Paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of section 
        3(d) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2753(d)) shall 
        not apply to any export or transfer that is the subject of an 
        exemption under subsection (l)(1) of section 38 of the Arms 
        Export Control Act of 1976, as added by subsection (a) of this 
        section.
            (2) Quarterly reports.--The Secretary shall--
                    (A) require all exports and transfers that would be 
                subject to the requirements of paragraphs (1), (2), and 
                (3) of section 3(d) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 
                U.S.C. 2753(d)) but for the application of subsection 
                (l)(1) of section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act of 
                1976, as added by subsection (a) of this section, to be 
                reported to the Secretary; and
                    (B) submit such reports to the Committee on Foreign 
                Relations of the Senate and Committee on Foreign 
                Affairs of the House of Representatives on a quarterly 
                basis.
    (d) Sunset.--Any exemption under subsection (l)(1) of section 38 of 
the Arms Export Control Act of 1976, as added by subsection (a) of this 
section, shall terminate on the date that is 15 years after the date of 
the enactment of this Act. The Secretary of State may renew such 
exemption for 5 years upon a certification to the Committee on Foreign 
Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the 
House of Representatives that such exemption is in the vital national 
interest of the United States with a detailed justification for such 
certification.
    (e) Reports.--
            (1) Annual report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than one year after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, and annually 
                thereafter until no exemptions under subsection (l)(1) 
                of section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act of 1976, 
                as added by subsection (a) of this section, remain in 
                effect, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
                Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on 
                Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a 
                report on the operation of exemptions issued under such 
                subsection (l)(1), including whether any changes to 
                such exemptions are likely to be made in the coming 
                year.
                    (B) Initial report.--The first report submitted 
                under subparagraph (A) shall also include an assessment 
                of key recommendations the United States Government has 
                provided to the Governments of Australia and the United 
                Kingdom to revise laws, regulations, and policies of 
                such countries that are required to implement the AUKUS 
                partnership.
            (2) Report on expedited review of export licenses for 
        exports of advanced technologies.--Not later than 180 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
        State, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense, shall 
        report on the practical application of a possible ``fast 
        track'' decision-making process for applications, classified or 
        unclassified, to export defense articles and defense services 
        to Australia, the United Kingdom, and Canada.

SEC. 6834. EXPEDITED REVIEW OF EXPORT LICENSES FOR EXPORTS OF ADVANCED 
              TECHNOLOGIES TO AUSTRALIA, THE UNITED KINGDOM, AND 
              CANADA.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in coordination with the 
Secretary of Defense, shall initiate a rulemaking to establish an 
expedited decision-making process, classified or unclassified, for 
applications to export to Australia, the United Kingdom, and Canada 
commercial, advanced-technology defense articles and defense services 
that are not covered by an exemption under the International Traffic in 
Arms Regulations.
    (b) Eligibility.--To qualify for the expedited decision-making 
process described in subsection (a), an application shall be for an 
export of defense articles or defense services that will take place 
wholly within or between the physical territory of Australia, Canada, 
or the United Kingdom and the United States and with governments or 
corporate entities from such countries.
    (c) Availability of Expedited Process.--The expedited decision-
making process described in subsection (a) shall be available for both 
classified and unclassified items, and the process must satisfy the 
following criteria to the extent practicable:
            (1) Any licensing application to export defense articles 
        and services that is related to a government to government 
        agreement must be approved, returned, or denied within 30 days 
        of submission.
            (2) For all other licensing requests, any review shall be 
        completed not later than 45 calendar days after the date of 
        application.

SEC. 6835. UNITED STATES MUNITIONS LIST.

    (a) Exemption for the Governments of the United Kingdom and 
Australia From Certification and Congressional Notification 
Requirements Applicable to Certain Transfers.--Section 38(f)(3) of the 
Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778(f)(3)) is amended by inserting 
``, the United Kingdom, or Australia'' after ``Canada''.
    (b) United States Munitions List Periodic Reviews.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, acting through authority 
        delegated by the President to carry out periodic reviews of 
        items on the United States Munitions List under section 38(f) 
        of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778(f)) and in 
        coordination with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of 
        Energy, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Director of the 
        Office of Management and Budget, shall carry out such reviews 
        not less frequently than every 3 years.
            (2) Scope.--The periodic reviews described in paragraph (1) 
        shall focus on matters including--
                    (A) interagency resources to address current 
                threats faced by the United States;
                    (B) the evolving technological and economic 
                landscape;
                    (C) the widespread availability of certain 
                technologies and items on the United States Munitions 
                List; and
                    (D) risks of misuse of United States-origin defense 
                articles.
            (3) Consultation.--The Department of State may consult with 
        the Defense Trade Advisory Group (DTAG) and other interested 
        parties in conducting the periodic review described in 
        paragraph (1).

                    Subtitle D--Other AUKUS Matters

SEC. 6841. REPORTING RELATED TO THE AUKUS PARTNERSHIP.

    (a) Report on Instruments.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the 
        signature, conclusion, or other finalization of any non-binding 
        instrument related to the AUKUS partnership, the President 
        shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees the 
        text of such instrument.
            (2) Non-duplication of efforts; rule of construction.--To 
        the extent the text of a non-binding instrument is submitted to 
        the appropriate congressional committees pursuant to subsection 
        (a), such text does not need to be submitted to Congress 
        pursuant to section 112b(a)(1)(A)(ii) of title 1, United States 
        Code, as amended by section 5947 of the James M. Inhofe 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public 
        Law 117-263; 136 Stat. 3476). Paragraph (1) shall not be 
        construed to relieve the executive branch of any other 
        requirement of section 112b of title 1, United States Code, as 
        amended so amended, or any other provision of law.
            (3) Definitions.--In this section:
                    (A) In general.--The term ``text'', with respect to 
                a non-binding instrument, includes--
                            (i) any annex, appendix, codicil, side 
                        agreement, side letter, or any document of 
                        similar purpose or function to the 
                        aforementioned, regardless of the title of the 
                        document, that is entered into 
                        contemporaneously and in conjunction with the 
                        non-binding instrument; and
                            (ii) any implementing agreement or 
                        arrangement, or any document of similar purpose 
                        or function to the aforementioned, regardless 
                        of the title of the document, that is entered 
                        into contemporaneously and in conjunction with 
                        the non-binding instrument.
                    (B) Contemporaneously and in conjunction with.--As 
                used in subparagraph (A), the term ``contemporaneously 
                and in conjunction with''--
                            (i) shall be construed liberally; and
                            (ii) may not be interpreted to require any 
                        action to have occurred simultaneously or on 
                        the same day.
    (b) Report on AUKUS Partnership.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and biennially thereafter, the 
        Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense and 
        other appropriate heads of agencies, shall submit to the 
        appropriate congressional committees a report on the AUKUS 
        partnership.
            (2) Elements.--Each report required under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following elements:
                    (A) Strategy.--
                            (i) An identification of the defensive 
                        military capability gaps and capacity 
                        shortfalls that the AUKUS partnership seeks to 
                        offset.
                            (ii) An explanation of the total cost to 
                        the United States associated with Pillar One of 
                        the AUKUS partnership.
                            (iii) A detailed explanation of how 
                        enhanced access to the industrial base of 
                        Australia is contributing to strengthening the 
                        United States strategic position in Asia.
                            (iv) A detailed explanation of the military 
                        and strategic benefit provided by the improved 
                        access provided by naval bases of Australia.
                            (v) A detailed assessment of how 
                        Australia's sovereign conventionally armed 
                        nuclear attack submarines contribute to United 
                        States defense and deterrence objectives in the 
                        Indo-Pacific region.
                    (B) Implement the aukus partnership.--
                            (i) Progress made on achieving the Optimal 
                        Pathway established for Australia's development 
                        of conventionally armed, nuclear-powered 
                        submarines, including the following elements:
                                    (I) A description of progress made 
                                by Australia, the United Kingdom, and 
                                the United States to conclude an 
                                Article 14 arrangement with the 
                                International Atomic Energy Agency.
                                    (II) A description of the status of 
                                efforts of Australia, the United 
                                Kingdom, and the United States to build 
                                the supporting infrastructure to base 
                                conventionally armed, nuclear-powered 
                                attack submarines.
                                    (III) Updates on the efforts by 
                                Australia, the United Kingdom, and the 
                                United States to train a workforce that 
                                can build, sustain, and operate 
                                conventionally armed, nuclear-powered 
                                attack submarines.
                                    (IV) A description of progress in 
                                establishing submarine support 
                                facilities capable of hosting 
                                rotational forces in western Australia 
                                by 2027.
                                    (V) A description of progress made 
                                in improving United States submarine 
                                production capabilities that will 
                                enable the United States to meet--
                                            (aa) its objectives of 
                                        providing up to five Virginia 
                                        Class submarines to Australia 
                                        by the early to mid-2030's; and
                                            (bb) United States 
                                        submarine production 
                                        requirements.
                            (ii) Progress made on Pillar Two of the 
                        AUKUS partnership, including the following 
                        elements:
                                    (I) An assessment of the efforts of 
                                Australia, the United Kingdom, and the 
                                United States to enhance collaboration 
                                across the following eight trilateral 
                                lines of effort:
                                            (aa) Underseas 
                                        capabilities.
                                            (bb) Quantum technologies.
                                            (cc) Artificial 
                                        intelligence and autonomy.
                                            (dd) Advanced cyber 
                                        capabilities.
                                            (ee) Hypersonic and 
                                        counter-hypersonic 
                                        capabilities.
                                            (ff) Electronic warfare.
                                            (gg) Innovation.
                                            (hh) Information sharing.
                                    (II) An assessment of any new lines 
                                of effort established.

        DIVISION G--UNIDENTIFIED ANOMALOUS PHENOMENA DISCLOSURE

SEC. 9001. SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Unidentified Anomalous 
Phenomena Disclosure Act of 2023'' or the ``UAP Disclosure Act of 
2023''.

SEC. 9002. FINDINGS, DECLARATIONS, AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings and Declarations.--Congress finds and declares the 
following:
            (1) All Federal Government records related to unidentified 
        anomalous phenomena should be preserved and centralized for 
        historical and Federal Government purposes.
            (2) All Federal Government records concerning unidentified 
        anomalous phenomena should carry a presumption of immediate 
        disclosure and all records should be eventually disclosed to 
        enable the public to become fully informed about the history of 
        the Federal Government's knowledge and involvement surrounding 
        unidentified anomalous phenomena.
            (3) Legislation is necessary to create an enforceable, 
        independent, and accountable process for the public disclosure 
        of such records.
            (4) Legislation is necessary because credible evidence and 
        testimony indicates that Federal Government unidentified 
        anomalous phenomena records exist that have not been 
        declassified or subject to mandatory declassification review as 
        set forth in Executive Order 13526 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note; 
        relating to classified national security information) due in 
        part to exemptions under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 
        U.S.C. 2011 et seq.), as well as an over-broad interpretation 
        of ``transclassified foreign nuclear information'', which is 
        also exempt from mandatory declassification, thereby preventing 
        public disclosure under existing provisions of law.
            (5) Legislation is necessary because section 552 of title 
        5, United States Code (commonly referred to as the ``Freedom of 
        Information Act''), as implemented by the Executive branch of 
        the Federal Government, has proven inadequate in achieving the 
        timely public disclosure of Government unidentified anomalous 
        phenomena records that are subject to mandatory 
        declassification review.
            (6) Legislation is necessary to restore proper oversight 
        over unidentified anomalous phenomena records by elected 
        officials in both the executive and legislative branches of the 
        Federal Government that has otherwise been lacking as of the 
        enactment of this Act.
            (7) Legislation is necessary to afford complete and timely 
        access to all knowledge gained by the Federal Government 
        concerning unidentified anomalous phenomena in furtherance of 
        comprehensive open scientific and technological research and 
        development essential to avoiding or mitigating potential 
        technological surprise in furtherance of urgent national 
        security concerns and the public interest.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this division are--
            (1) to provide for the creation of the unidentified 
        anomalous phenomena Records Collection at the National Archives 
        and Records Administration; and
            (2) to require the expeditious public transmission to the 
        Archivist and public disclosure of such records.

SEC. 9003. DEFINITIONS.

    In this division:
            (1) Archivist.--The term ``Archivist'' means the Archivist 
        of the United States.
            (2) Close observer.--The term ``close observer'' means 
        anyone who has come into close proximity to unidentified 
        anomalous phenomena or non-human intelligence.
            (3) Collection.--The term ``Collection'' means the 
        Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena Records Collection established 
        under section 9004.
            (4) Controlled disclosure campaign plan.--The term 
        ``Controlled Disclosure Campaign Plan'' means the Controlled 
        Disclosure Campaign Plan required by section 9009(c)(3).
            (5) Controlling authority.--The term ``controlling 
        authority'' means any Federal, State, or local government 
        department, office, agency, committee, commission, commercial 
        company, academic institution, or private sector entity in 
        physical possession of technologies of unknown origin or 
        biological evidence of non-human intelligence.
            (6) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        the Office of Government Ethics.
            (7) Executive agency.--The term ``Executive agency'' means 
        an Executive agency, as defined in subsection 552(f) of title 
        5, United States Code.
            (8) Government office.--The term ``Government office'' 
        means any department, office, agency, committee, or commission 
        of the Federal Government and any independent office or agency 
        without exception that has possession or control, including via 
        contract or other agreement, of unidentified anomalous 
        phenomena records.
            (9) Identification aid.--The term ``identification aid'' 
        means the written description prepared for each record, as 
        required in section 9004.
            (10) Leadership of congress.--The term ``leadership of 
        Congress'' means--
                    (A) the majority leader of the Senate;
                    (B) the minority leader of the Senate;
                    (C) the Speaker of the House of Representatives; 
                and
                    (D) the minority leader of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (11) Legacy program.--The term ``legacy program'' means all 
        Federal, State, and local government, commercial industry, 
        academic, and private sector endeavors to collect, exploit, or 
        reverse engineer technologies of unknown origin or examine 
        biological evidence of living or deceased non-human 
        intelligence that pre-dates the date of the enactment of this 
        Act.
            (12) National archives.--The term ``National Archives'' 
        means the National Archives and Records Administration and all 
        components thereof, including presidential archival 
        depositories established under section 2112 of title 44, United 
        States Code.
            (13) Non-human intelligence.--The term ``non-human 
        intelligence'' means any sentient intelligent non-human 
        lifeform regardless of nature or ultimate origin that may be 
        presumed responsible for unidentified anomalous phenomena or of 
        which the Federal Government has become aware.
            (14) Originating body.--The term ``originating body'' means 
        the Executive agency, Federal Government commission, committee 
        of Congress, or other Governmental entity that created a record 
        or particular information within a record.
            (15) Prosaic attribution.--The term ``prosaic attribution'' 
        means having a human (either foreign or domestic) origin and 
        operating according to current, proven, and generally 
        understood scientific and engineering principles and 
        established laws-of-nature and not attributable to non-human 
        intelligence.
            (16) Public interest.--The term ``public interest'' means 
        the compelling interest in the prompt public disclosure of 
        unidentified anomalous phenomena records for historical and 
        Governmental purposes and for the purpose of fully informing 
        the people of the United States about the history of the 
        Federal Government's knowledge and involvement surrounding 
        unidentified anomalous phenomena.
            (17) Record.--The term ``record'' includes a book, paper, 
        report, memorandum, directive, email, text, or other form of 
        communication, or map, photograph, sound or video recording, 
        machine-readable material, computerized, digitized, or 
        electronic information, including intelligence, surveillance, 
        reconnaissance, and target acquisition sensor data, regardless 
        of the medium on which it is stored, or other documentary 
        material, regardless of its physical form or characteristics.
            (18) Review board.--The term ``Review Board'' means the 
        Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena Records Review Board 
        established by section 9007.
            (19) Technologies of unknown origin.--The term 
        ``technologies of unknown origin'' means any materials or meta-
        materials, ejecta, crash debris, mechanisms, machinery, 
        equipment, assemblies or sub-assemblies, engineering models or 
        processes, damaged or intact aerospace vehicles, and damaged or 
        intact ocean-surface and undersea craft associated with 
        unidentified anomalous phenomena or incorporating science and 
        technology that lacks prosaic attribution or known means of 
        human manufacture.
            (20) Temporarily non-attributed objects.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``temporarily non-
                attributed objects'' means the class of objects that 
                temporarily resist prosaic attribution by the initial 
                observer as a result of environmental or system 
                limitations associated with the observation process 
                that nevertheless ultimately have an accepted human 
                origin or known physical cause. Although some 
                unidentified anomalous phenomena may at first be 
                interpreted as temporarily non-attributed objects, they 
                are not temporarily non-attributed objects, and the two 
                categories are mutually exclusive.
                    (B) Inclusion.--The term ``temporarily non-
                attributed objects'' includes--
                            (i) natural celestial, meteorological, and 
                        undersea weather phenomena;
                            (ii) mundane human-made airborne objects, 
                        clutter, and marine debris;
                            (iii) Federal, State, and local government, 
                        commercial industry, academic, and private 
                        sector aerospace platforms;
                            (iv) Federal, State, and local government, 
                        commercial industry, academic, and private 
                        sector ocean-surface and undersea vehicles; and
                            (v) known foreign systems.
            (21) Third agency.--The term ``third agency'' means a 
        Government agency that originated a unidentified anomalous 
        phenomena record that is in the possession of another 
        Government agency.
            (22) Unidentified anomalous phenomena.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``unidentified anomalous 
                phenomena'' means any object operating or judged 
                capable of operating in outer-space, the atmosphere, 
                ocean surfaces, or undersea lacking prosaic attribution 
                due to performance characteristics and properties not 
                previously known to be achievable based upon commonly 
                accepted physical principles. Unidentified anomalous 
                phenomena are differentiated from both attributed and 
                temporarily non-attributed objects by one or more of 
                the following observables:
                            (i) Instantaneous acceleration absent 
                        apparent inertia.
                            (ii) Hypersonic velocity absent a thermal 
                        signature and sonic shockwave.
                            (iii) Transmedium (such as space-to-ground 
                        and air-to-undersea) travel.
                            (iv) Positive lift contrary to known 
                        aerodynamic principles.
                            (v) Multispectral signature control.
                            (vi) Physical or invasive biological 
                        effects to close observers and the environment.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The term ``unidentified anomalous 
                phenomena'' includes what were previously described 
                as--
                            (i) flying discs;
                            (ii) flying saucers;
                            (iii) unidentified aerial phenomena;
                            (iv) unidentified flying objects (UFOs); 
                        and
                            (v) unidentified submerged objects (USOs).
            (23) Unidentified anomalous phenomena record.--The term 
        ``unidentified anomalous phenomena record'' means a record that 
        is related to unidentified anomalous phenomena, technologies of 
        unknown origin, or non-human intelligence (and all equivalent 
        subjects by any other name with the specific and sole exclusion 
        of temporarily non-attributed objects) that was created or made 
        available for use by, obtained by, or otherwise came into the 
        possession of--
                    (A) the Executive Office of the President;
                    (B) the Department of Defense and its progenitors, 
                the Department of War and the Department of the Navy;
                    (C) the Department of the Army;
                    (D) the Department of the Navy;
                    (E) the Department of the Air Force, specifically 
                the Air Force Office of Special Investigations;
                    (F) the Department of Energy and its progenitors, 
                the Manhattan Project, the Atomic Energy Commission, 
                and the Energy Research and Development Administration;
                    (G) the Office of the Director of National 
                Intelligence;
                    (H) the Central Intelligence Agency and its 
                progenitor, the Office of Strategic Services;
                    (I) the National Reconnaissance Office;
                    (J) the Defense Intelligence Agency;
                    (K) the National Security Agency;
                    (L) the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency;
                    (M) the National Aeronautics and Space 
                Administration:
                    (N) the Federal Bureau of Investigation;
                    (O) the Federal Aviation Administration;
                    (P) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                Administration;
                    (Q) the Library of Congress;
                    (R) the National Archives and Records 
                Administration;
                    (S) any Presidential library;
                    (T) any Executive agency;
                    (U) any independent office or agency;
                    (V) any other department, office, agency, 
                committee, or commission of the Federal Government;
                    (W) any State or local government department, 
                office, agency, committee, or commission that provided 
                support or assistance or performed work, in connection 
                with a Federal inquiry into unidentified anomalous 
                phenomena, technologies of unknown origin, or non-human 
                intelligence; and
                    (X) any private sector person or entity formerly or 
                currently under contract or some other agreement with 
                the Federal Government.

SEC. 9004. UNIDENTIFIED ANOMALOUS PHENOMENA RECORDS COLLECTION AT THE 
              NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--(A) Not later than 60 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Archivist shall commence 
        establishment of a collection of records in the National 
        Archives to be known as the ``Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena 
        Records Collection''.
            (B) In carrying out subparagraph (A), the Archivist shall 
        ensure the physical integrity and original provenance (or if 
        indeterminate, the earliest historical owner) of all records in 
        the Collection.
            (C) The Collection shall consist of record copies of all 
        Government, Government-provided, or Government-funded records 
        relating to unidentified anomalous phenomena, technologies of 
        unknown origin, and non-human intelligence (or equivalent 
        subjects by any other name with the specific and sole exclusion 
        of temporarily non-attributed objects), which shall be 
        transmitted to the National Archives in accordance with section 
        2107 of title 44, United States Code.
            (D) The Archivist shall prepare and publish a subject 
        guidebook and index to the Collection.
            (2) Contents.--The Collection shall include the following:
                    (A) All unidentified anomalous phenomena records, 
                regardless of age or date of creation--
                            (i) that have been transmitted to the 
                        National Archives or disclosed to the public in 
                        an unredacted form prior to the date of the 
                        enactment of this Act;
                            (ii) that are required to be transmitted to 
                        the National Archives; and
                            (iii) that the disclosure of which is 
                        postponed under this Act.
                    (B) A central directory comprised of identification 
                aids created for each record transmitted to the 
                Archivist under section 9005.
                    (C) All Review Board records as required by this 
                Act.
    (b) Disclosure of Records.--All unidentified anomalous phenomena 
records transmitted to the National Archives for disclosure to the 
public shall--
            (1) be included in the Collection; and
            (2) be available to the public--
                    (A) for inspection and copying at the National 
                Archives within 30 days after their transmission to the 
                National Archives; and
                    (B) digitally via the National Archives online 
                database within a reasonable amount of time not to 
                exceed 180 days thereafter.
    (c) Fees for Copying.--
            (1) In general.--The Archivist shall--
                    (A) charge fees for copying unidentified anomalous 
                phenomena records; and
                    (B) grant waivers of such fees pursuant to the 
                standards established by section 552(a)(4) of title 5, 
                United States Code.
            (2) Amount of fees.--The amount of a fee charged by the 
        Archivist pursuant to paragraph (1)(A) for the copying of an 
        unidentified anomalous phenomena record shall be such amount as 
        the Archivist determines appropriate to cover the costs 
        incurred by the National Archives in making and providing such 
        copy, except that in no case may the amount of the fee charged 
        exceed the actual expenses incurred by the National Archives in 
        making and providing such copy.
    (d) Additional Requirements.--
            (1) Use of funds.--The Collection shall be preserved, 
        protected, archived, digitized, and made available to the 
        public at the National Archives and via the official National 
        Archives online database using appropriations authorized, 
        specified, and restricted for use under the terms of this Act.
            (2) Security of records.--The National Security Program 
        Office at the National Archives, in consultation with the 
        National Archives Information Security Oversight Office, shall 
        establish a program to ensure the security of the postponed 
        unidentified anomalous phenomena records in the protected, and 
        yet-to-be disclosed or classified portion of the Collection.
    (e) Oversight.--
            (1) Senate.--The Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs of the Senate shall have continuing 
        legislative oversight jurisdiction in the Senate with respect 
        to the Collection.
            (2) House of representatives.--The Committee on Oversight 
        and Accountability of the House of Representatives shall have 
        continuing legislative oversight jurisdiction in the House of 
        Representatives with respect to the Collection.

SEC. 9005. REVIEW, IDENTIFICATION, TRANSMISSION TO THE NATIONAL 
              ARCHIVES, AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF UNIDENTIFIED ANOMALOUS 
              PHENOMENA RECORDS BY GOVERNMENT OFFICES.

    (a) Identification, Organization, and Preparation for 
Transmission.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, each head of a Government office 
        shall--
                    (A) identify and organize records in the possession 
                of the Government office or under the control of the 
                Government office relating to unidentified anomalous 
                phenomena; and
                    (B) prepare such records for transmission to the 
                Archivist for inclusion in the Collection.
            (2) Prohibitions.--(A) No unidentified anomalous phenomena 
        record shall be destroyed, altered, or mutilated in any way.
            (B) No unidentified anomalous phenomena record made 
        available or disclosed to the public prior to the date of the 
        enactment of this Act may be withheld, redacted, postponed for 
        public disclosure, or reclassified.
            (C) No unidentified anomalous phenomena record created by a 
        person or entity outside the Federal Government (excluding 
        names or identities consistent with the requirements of section 
        9006) shall be withheld, redacted, postponed for public 
        disclosure, or reclassified.
    (b) Custody of Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena Records Pending 
Review.--During the review by the heads of Government offices under 
subsection (c) and pending review activity by the Review Board, each 
head of a Government office shall retain custody of the unidentified 
anomalous phenomena records of the office for purposes of preservation, 
security, and efficiency, unless--
            (1) the Review Board requires the physical transfer of the 
        records for purposes of conducting an independent and impartial 
        review;
            (2) transfer is necessary for an administrative hearing or 
        other Review Board function; or
            (3) it is a third agency record described in subsection 
        (c)(2)(C).
    (c) Review by Heads of Government Offices.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 300 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, each head of a Government office 
        shall review, identify, and organize each unidentified 
        anomalous phenomena record in the custody or possession of the 
        office for--
                    (A) disclosure to the public;
                    (B) review by the Review Board; and
                    (C) transmission to the Archivist.
            (2) Requirements.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the head 
        of a Government office shall--
                    (A) determine which of the records of the office 
                are unidentified anomalous phenomena records;
                    (B) determine which of the unidentified anomalous 
                phenomena records of the office have been officially 
                disclosed or made publicly available in a complete and 
                unredacted form;
                    (C)(i) determine which of the unidentified 
                anomalous phenomena records of the office, or 
                particular information contained in such a record, was 
                created by a third agency or by another Government 
                office; and
                    (ii) transmit to a third agency or other Government 
                office those records, or particular information 
                contained in those records, or complete and accurate 
                copies thereof;
                    (D)(i) determine whether the unidentified anomalous 
                phenomena records of the office or particular 
                information in unidentified anomalous phenomena records 
                of the office are covered by the standards for 
                postponement of public disclosure under this division; 
                and
                    (ii) specify on the identification aid required by 
                subsection (d) the applicable postponement provision 
                contained in section 9006;
                    (E) organize and make available to the Review Board 
                all unidentified anomalous phenomena records identified 
                under subparagraph (D) the public disclosure of, which 
                in-whole or in-part, may be postponed under this 
                division;
                    (F) organize and make available to the Review Board 
                any record concerning which the office has any 
                uncertainty as to whether the record is an unidentified 
                anomalous phenomena record governed by this division;
                    (G) give precedence of work to--
                            (i) the identification, review, and 
                        transmission of unidentified anomalous 
                        phenomena records not already publicly 
                        available or disclosed as of the date of the 
                        enactment of this Act;
                            (ii) the identification, review, and 
                        transmission of all records that most 
                        unambiguously and definitively pertain to 
                        unidentified anomalous phenomena, technologies 
                        of unknown origin, and non-human intelligence;
                            (iii) the identification, review, and 
                        transmission of unidentified anomalous 
                        phenomena records that on the date of the 
                        enactment of this Act are the subject of 
                        litigation under section 552 of title 5, United 
                        States Code; and
                            (iv) the identification, review, and 
                        transmission of unidentified anomalous 
                        phenomena records with earliest provenance when 
                        not inconsistent with clauses (i) through (iii) 
                        and otherwise feasible; and
                    (H) make available to the Review Board any 
                additional information and records that the Review 
                Board has reason to believe the Review Board requires 
                for conducting a review under this division.
            (3) Priority of expedited review for directors of certain 
        archival depositories.--The Director of each archival 
        depository established under section 2112 of title 44, United 
        States Code, shall have as a priority the expedited review for 
        public disclosure of unidentified anomalous phenomena records 
        in the possession and custody of the depository, and shall make 
        such records available to the Review Board as required by this 
        division.
    (d) Identification Aids.--
            (1) In general.--(A) Not later than 45 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Archivist, in consultation 
        with the heads of such Government offices as the Archivist 
        considers appropriate, shall prepare and make available to all 
        Government offices a standard form of identification, or 
        finding aid, for use with each unidentified anomalous phenomena 
        record subject to review under this division whether in 
        hardcopy (physical), softcopy (electronic), or digitized data 
        format as may be appropriate.
            (B) The Archivist shall ensure that the identification aid 
        program is established in such a manner as to result in the 
        creation of a uniform system for cataloging and finding every 
        unidentified anomalous phenomena record subject to review under 
        this division where ever and how ever stored in hardcopy 
        (physical), softcopy (electronic), or digitized data format.
            (2) Requirements for government offices.--Upon completion 
        of an identification aid using the standard form of 
        identification prepared and made available under subparagraph 
        (A) of paragraph (1) for the program established pursuant to 
        subparagraph (B) of such paragraph, the head of a Government 
        office shall--
                    (A) attach a printed copy to each physical 
                unidentified anomalous phenomena record, and an 
                electronic copy to each softcopy or digitized data 
                unidentified anomalous phenomena record, the 
                identification aid describes;
                    (B) transmit to the Review Board a printed copy for 
                each physical unidentified anomalous phenomena record 
                and an electronic copy for each softcopy or digitized 
                data unidentified anomalous phenomena record the 
                identification aid describes; and
                    (C) attach a printed copy to each physical 
                unidentified anomalous phenomena record, and an 
                electronic copy to each softcopy or digitized data 
                unidentified anomalous phenomena record the 
                identification aid describes, when transmitted to the 
                Archivist.
            (3) Records of the national archives that are publicly 
        available.--Unidentified anomalous phenomena records which are 
        in the possession of the National Archives on the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, and which have been publicly available 
        in their entirety without redaction, shall be made available in 
        the Collection without any additional review by the Review 
        Board or another authorized office under this division, and 
        shall not be required to have such an identification aid unless 
        required by the Archivist.
    (e) Transmission to the National Archives.--Each head of a 
Government office shall--
            (1) transmit to the Archivist, and make immediately 
        available to the public, all unidentified anomalous phenomena 
        records of the Government office that can be publicly 
        disclosed, including those that are publicly available on the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, without any redaction, 
        adjustment, or withholding under the standards of this 
        division; and
            (2) transmit to the Archivist upon approval for 
        postponement by the Review Board or upon completion of other 
        action authorized by this division, all unidentified anomalous 
        phenomena records of the Government office the public 
        disclosure of which has been postponed, in whole or in part, 
        under the standards of this division, to become part of the 
        protected, yet-to-be disclosed, or classified portion of the 
        Collection.
    (f) Custody of Postponed Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena 
Records.--An unidentified anomalous phenomena record the public 
disclosure of which has been postponed shall, pending transmission to 
the Archivist, be held for reasons of security and preservation by the 
originating body until such time as the information security program 
has been established at the National Archives as required in section 
9004(d)(2).
    (g) Periodic Review of Postponed Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena 
Records.--
            (1) In general.--All postponed or redacted records shall be 
        reviewed periodically by the originating agency and the 
        Archivist consistent with the recommendations of the Review 
        Board in the Controlled Disclosure Campaign Plan under section 
        9009(c)(3)(B).
            (2) Requirements.--(A) A periodic review under paragraph 
        (1) shall address the public disclosure of additional 
        unidentified anomalous phenomena records in the Collection 
        under the standards of this division.
            (B) All postponed unidentified anomalous phenomena records 
        determined to require continued postponement shall require an 
        unclassified written description of the reason for such 
        continued postponement relevant to these specific records. Such 
        description shall be provided to the Archivist and published in 
        the Federal Register upon determination.
            (C) The time and release requirements specified in the 
        Controlled Disclosure Campaign Plan shall be revised or amended 
        only if the Review Board is still in session and concurs with 
        the rationale for postponement, subject to the limitations in 
        section 9009(d)(1).
            (D) The periodic review of postponed unidentified anomalous 
        phenomena records shall serve to downgrade and declassify 
        security classified information.
            (E) Each unidentified anomalous phenomena record shall be 
        publicly disclosed in full, and available in the Collection, 
        not later than the date that is 25 years after the date of the 
        first creation of the record by the originating body, unless 
        the President certifies, as required by this division, that--
                    (i) continued postponement is made necessary by an 
                identifiable harm to the military defense, intelligence 
                operations, law enforcement, or conduct of foreign 
                relations; and
                    (ii) the identifiable harm is of such gravity that 
                it outweighs the public interest in disclosure.
    (h) Requirements for Executive Agencies.--
            (1) In general.--Executive agencies shall--
                    (A) transmit digital records electronically in 
                accordance with section 2107 of title 44, United States 
                Code;
                    (B) charge fees for copying unidentified anomalous 
                phenomena records; and
                    (C) grant waivers of such fees pursuant to the 
                standards established by section 552(a)(4) of title 5, 
                United States Code.
            (2) Amount of fees.--The amount of a fee charged by the 
        head of an Executive agency pursuant to paragraph (1)(B) for 
        the copying of an unidentified anomalous phenomena record shall 
        be such amount as the head determines appropriate to cover the 
        costs incurred by the Executive agency in making and providing 
        such copy, except that in no case may the amount of the fee 
        charged exceed the actual expenses incurred by the Executive 
        agency in making and providing such copy.

SEC. 9006. GROUNDS FOR POSTPONEMENT OF PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF 
              UNIDENTIFIED ANOMALOUS PHENOMENA RECORDS.

    Disclosure of unidentified anomalous phenomena records or 
particular information in unidentified anomalous phenomena records to 
the public may be postponed subject to the limitations of this division 
if there is clear and convincing evidence that--
            (1) the threat to the military defense, intelligence 
        operations, or conduct of foreign relations of the United 
        States posed by the public disclosure of the unidentified 
        anomalous phenomena record is of such gravity that it outweighs 
        the public interest in disclosure, and such public disclosure 
        would reveal--
                    (A) an intelligence agent whose identity currently 
                requires protection;
                    (B) an intelligence source or method which is 
                currently utilized, or reasonably expected to be 
                utilized, by the Federal Government and which has not 
                been officially disclosed, the disclosure of which 
                would interfere with the conduct of intelligence 
                activities; or
                    (C) any other matter currently relating to the 
                military defense, intelligence operations, or conduct 
                of foreign relations of the United States, the 
                disclosure of which would demonstrably and 
                substantially impair the national security of the 
                United States;
            (2) the public disclosure of the unidentified anomalous 
        phenomena record would reveal the name or identity of a living 
        person who provided confidential information to the Federal 
        Government and would pose a substantial risk of harm to that 
        person;
            (3) the public disclosure of the unidentified anomalous 
        phenomena record could reasonably be expected to constitute an 
        unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of 
        privacy is so substantial that it outweighs the public 
        interest; or
            (4) the public disclosure of the unidentified anomalous 
        phenomena record would compromise the existence of an 
        understanding of confidentiality currently requiring protection 
        between a Federal Government agent and a cooperating individual 
        or a foreign government, and public disclosure would be so 
        harmful that it outweighs the public interest.

SEC. 9007. ESTABLISHMENT AND POWERS OF THE UNIDENTIFIED ANOMALOUS 
              PHENOMENA RECORDS REVIEW BOARD.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established as an independent agency a 
board to be known as the ``Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena Records 
Review Board''.
    (b) Appointment.--
            (1) In general.--The President, by and with the advice and 
        consent of the Senate, shall appoint, without regard to 
        political affiliation, 9 citizens of the United States to serve 
        as members of the Review Board to ensure and facilitate the 
        review, transmission to the Archivist, and public disclosure of 
        government records relating to unidentified anomalous 
        phenomena.
            (2) Period for nominations.--(A) The President shall make 
        nominations to the Review Board not later than 90 calendar days 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (B) If the Senate votes not to confirm a nomination to the 
        Review Board, the President shall make an additional nomination 
        not later than 30 days thereafter.
            (3) Consideration of recommendations.--(A) The President 
        shall make nominations to the Review Board after considering 
        persons recommended by the following:
                    (i) The majority leader of the Senate.
                    (ii) The minority leader of the Senate.
                    (iii) The Speaker of the House of Representatives.
                    (iv) The minority leader of the House of 
                Representatives.
                    (v) The Secretary of Defense.
                    (vi) The National Academy of Sciences.
                    (vii) Established nonprofit research organizations 
                relating to unidentified anomalous phenomena.
                    (viii) The American Historical Association.
                    (ix) Such other persons and organizations as the 
                President considers appropriate.
            (B) If an individual or organization described in 
        subparagraph (A) does not recommend at least 2 nominees meeting 
        the qualifications stated in paragraph (5) by the date that is 
        45 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
        President shall consider for nomination the persons recommended 
        by the other individuals and organizations described in such 
        subparagraph.
            (C) The President may request an individual or organization 
        described in subparagraph (A) to submit additional nominations.
            (4) Qualifications.--Persons nominated to the Review 
        Board--
                    (A) shall be impartial citizens, none of whom shall 
                have had any previous or current involvement with any 
                legacy program or controlling authority relating to the 
                collection, exploitation, or reverse engineering of 
                technologies of unknown origin or the examination of 
                biological evidence of living or deceased non-human 
                intelligence;
                    (B) shall be distinguished persons of high national 
                professional reputation in their respective fields who 
                are capable of exercising the independent and objective 
                judgment necessary to the fulfillment of their role in 
                ensuring and facilitating the review, transmission to 
                the public, and public disclosure of records related to 
                the government's understanding of, and activities 
                associated with unidentified anomalous phenomena, 
                technologies of unknown origin, and non-human 
                intelligence and who possess an appreciation of the 
                value of such material to the public, scholars, and 
                government; and
                    (C) shall include at least--
                            (i) 1 current or former national security 
                        official;
                            (ii) 1 current or former foreign service 
                        official;
                            (iii) 1 scientist or engineer;
                            (iv) 1 economist;
                            (v) 1 professional historian; and
                            (vi) 1 sociologist.
            (5) Mandatory conflicts of interest review.--
                    (A) In general.--The Director shall conduct a 
                review of each individual nominated and appointed to 
                the position of member of the Review Board to ensure 
                the member does not have any conflict of interest 
                during the term of the service of the member.
                    (B) Reports.--During the course of the review under 
                subparagraph (A), if the Director becomes aware that 
                the member being reviewed possesses a conflict of 
                interest to the mission of the Review Board, the 
                Director shall, not later than 30 days after the date 
                on which the Director became aware of the conflict of 
                interest, submit to the Committee on Homeland Security 
                and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the 
                Committee on Oversight and Accountability of the House 
                of Representatives a report on the conflict of 
                interest.
    (c) Security Clearances.--
            (1) In general.--All Review Board nominees shall be granted 
        the necessary security clearances and accesses, including any 
        and all relevant Presidential, departmental, and agency special 
        access programs, in an accelerated manner subject to the 
        standard procedures for granting such clearances.
            (2) Qualification for nominees.--All nominees for 
        appointment to the Review Board under subsection (b) shall 
        qualify for the necessary security clearances and accesses 
        prior to being considered for confirmation by the Committee on 
        Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
    (d) Consideration by the Senate.--Nominations for appointment under 
subsection (b) shall be referred to the Committee on Homeland Security 
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate for consideration.
    (e) Vacancy.--A vacancy on the Review Board shall be filled in the 
same manner as specified for original appointment within 30 days of the 
occurrence of the vacancy.
    (f) Removal of Review Board Member.--
            (1) In general.--No member of the Review Board shall be 
        removed from office, other than--
                    (A) by impeachment and conviction; or
                    (B) by the action of the President for 
                inefficiency, neglect of duty, malfeasance in office, 
                physical disability, mental incapacity, or any other 
                condition that substantially impairs the performance of 
                the member's duties.
            (2) Notice of removal.--(A) If a member of the Review Board 
        is removed from office, and that removal is by the President, 
        not later than 10 days after the removal, the President shall 
        submit to the leadership of Congress, the Committee on Homeland 
        Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Oversight and Reform of the House of 
        Representatives a report specifying the facts found and the 
        grounds for the removal.
            (B) The President shall publish in the Federal Register a 
        report submitted under subparagraph (A), except that the 
        President may, if necessary to protect the rights of a person 
        named in the report or to prevent undue interference with any 
        pending prosecution, postpone or refrain from publishing any or 
        all of the report until the completion of such pending cases or 
        pursuant to privacy protection requirements in law.
            (3) Judicial review.--(A) A member of the Review Board 
        removed from office may obtain judicial review of the removal 
        in a civil action commenced in the United States District Court 
        for the District of Columbia.
            (B) The member may be reinstated or granted other 
        appropriate relief by order of the court.
    (g) Compensation of Members.--
            (1) In general.--A member of the Review Board, other than 
        the Executive Director under section 9008(c)(1), shall be 
        compensated at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of the 
        annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level IV of the 
        Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States 
        Code, for each day (including travel time) during which the 
        member is engaged in the performance of the duties of the 
        Review Board.
            (2) Travel expenses.--A member of the Review Board shall be 
        allowed reasonable travel expenses, including per diem in lieu 
        of subsistence, at rates for employees of agencies under 
        subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code, 
        while away from the member's home or regular place of business 
        in the performance of services for the Review Board.
    (h) Duties of the Review Board.--
            (1) In general.--The Review Board shall consider and render 
        decisions on a determination by a Government office to seek to 
        postpone the disclosure of unidentified anomalous phenomena 
        records.
            (2) Considerations and rendering of decisions.--In carrying 
        out paragraph (1), the Review Board shall consider and render 
        decisions--
                    (A) whether a record constitutes a unidentified 
                anomalous phenomena record; and
                    (B) whether a unidentified anomalous phenomena 
                record or particular information in a record qualifies 
                for postponement of disclosure under this division.
    (i) Powers.--
            (1) In general.--The Review Board shall have the authority 
        to act in a manner prescribed under this division, including 
        authority--
                    (A) to direct Government offices to complete 
                identification aids and organize unidentified anomalous 
                phenomena records;
                    (B) to direct Government offices to transmit to the 
                Archivist unidentified anomalous phenomena records as 
                required under this division, including segregable 
                portions of unidentified anomalous phenomena records 
                and substitutes and summaries of unidentified anomalous 
                phenomena records that can be publicly disclosed to the 
                fullest extent;
                    (C)(i) to obtain access to unidentified anomalous 
                phenomena records that have been identified and 
                organized by a Government office;
                    (ii) to direct a Government office to make 
                available to the Review Board, and if necessary 
                investigate the facts surrounding, additional 
                information, records, or testimony from individuals 
                which the Review Board has reason to believe are 
                required to fulfill its functions and responsibilities 
                under this division; and
                    (iii) request the Attorney General to subpoena 
                private persons to compel testimony, records, and other 
                information relevant to its responsibilities under this 
                division;
                    (D) require any Government office to account in 
                writing for the destruction of any records relating to 
                unidentified anomalous phenomena, technologies of 
                unknown origin, or non-human intelligence;
                    (E) receive information from the public regarding 
                the identification and public disclosure of 
                unidentified anomalous phenomena records;
                    (F) hold hearings, administer oaths, and subpoena 
                witnesses and documents;
                    (G) use the Federal Acquisition Service in the same 
                manner and under the same conditions as other Executive 
                agencies; and
                    (H) use the United States mails in the same manner 
                and under the same conditions as other Executive 
                agencies.
            (2) Enforcement of subpoena.--A subpoena issued under 
        paragraph (1)(C)(iii) may be enforced by any appropriate 
        Federal court acting pursuant to a lawful request of the Review 
        Board.
    (j) Witness Immunity.--The Review Board shall be considered to be 
an agency of the United States for purposes of section 6001 of title 
18, United States Code. Witnesses, close observers, and whistleblowers 
providing information directly to the Review Board shall also be 
afforded the protections provided to such persons specified under 
section 1673(b) of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (50 U.S.C. 3373b(b)).
    (k) Oversight.--
            (1) Senate.--The Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs of the Senate shall have continuing 
        legislative oversight jurisdiction in the Senate with respect 
        to the official conduct of the Review Board and the disposition 
        of postponed records after termination of the Review Board, and 
        shall have access to any records held or created by the Review 
        Board.
            (2) House of representatives.--Unless otherwise determined 
        appropriate by the House of Representatives, the Committee on 
        Oversight and Accountability of the House of Representatives 
        shall have continuing legislative oversight jurisdiction in the 
        House of Representatives with respect to the official conduct 
        of the Review Board and the disposition of postponed records 
        after termination of the Review Board, and shall have access to 
        any records held or created by the Review Board.
            (3) Duty to cooperate.--The Review Board shall have the 
        duty to cooperate with the exercise of oversight jurisdiction 
        described in this subsection.
            (4) Security clearances.--The Chairmen and Ranking Members 
        of the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
        of the Senate and the Committee on Oversight and Accountability 
        of the House of Representatives, and staff of such committees 
        designated by such Chairmen and Ranking Members, shall be 
        granted all security clearances and accesses held by the Review 
        Board, including to relevant Presidential and department or 
        agency special access and compartmented access programs.
    (l) Support Services.--The Administrator of the General Services 
Administration shall provide administrative services for the Review 
Board on a reimbursable basis.
    (m) Interpretive Regulations.--The Review Board may issue 
interpretive regulations.
    (n) Termination and Winding Down.--
            (1) In general.--The Review Board and the terms of its 
        members shall terminate not later than September 30, 2030, 
        unless extended by Congress.
            (2) Reports.--Upon its termination, the Review Board shall 
        submit to the President and Congress reports, including a 
        complete and accurate accounting of expenditures during its 
        existence and shall complete all other reporting requirements 
        under this division.
            (3) Transfer of records.--Upon termination and winding 
        down, the Review Board shall transfer all of its records to the 
        Archivist for inclusion in the Collection, and no record of the 
        Review Board shall be destroyed.

SEC. 9008. UNIDENTIFIED ANOMALOUS PHENOMENA RECORDS REVIEW BOARD 
              PERSONNEL.

    (a) Executive Director.--
            (1) Appointment.--Not later than 45 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the President shall appoint 1 
        citizen of the United States, without regard to political 
        affiliation, to the position of Executive Director of the 
        Review Board. This position counts as 1 of the 9 Review Board 
        members under section 9007(b)(1).
            (2) Qualifications.--The person appointed as Executive 
        Director shall be a private citizen of integrity and 
        impartiality who--
                    (A) is a distinguished professional; and
                    (B) is not a present employee of the Federal 
                Government; and
                    (C) has had no previous or current involvement with 
                any legacy program or controlling authority relating to 
                the collection, exploitation, or reverse engineering of 
                technologies of unknown origin or the examination of 
                biological evidence of living or deceased non-human 
                intelligence.
            (3) Mandatory conflicts of interest review.--
                    (A) In general.--The Director shall conduct a 
                review of each individual appointed to the position of 
                Executive Director to ensure the Executive Director 
                does not have any conflict of interest during the term 
                of the service of the Executive Director.
                    (B) Reports.--During the course of the review under 
                subparagraph (A), if the Director becomes aware that 
                the Executive Director possesses a conflict of interest 
                to the mission of the Review Board, the Director shall, 
                not later than 30 days after the date on which the 
                Director became aware of the conflict of interest, 
                submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
                Oversight and Accountability of the House of 
                Representatives a report on the conflict of interest.
            (4) Security clearances.--(A) A candidate for Executive 
        Director shall be granted all the necessary security clearances 
        and accesses, including to relevant Presidential and department 
        or agency special access and compartmented access programs in 
        an accelerated manner subject to the standard procedures for 
        granting such clearances.
            (B) A candidate shall qualify for the necessary security 
        clearances and accesses prior to being appointed by the 
        President.
            (5) Functions.--The Executive Director shall--
                    (A) serve as principal liaison to the Executive 
                Office of the President and Congress;
                    (B) serve as Chairperson of the Review Board;
                    (C) be responsible for the administration and 
                coordination of the Review Board's review of records;
                    (D) be responsible for the administration of all 
                official activities conducted by the Review Board;
                    (E) exercise tie-breaking Review Board authority to 
                decide or determine whether any record should be 
                disclosed to the public or postponed for disclosure; 
                and
                    (F) retain right-of-appeal directly to the 
                President for decisions pertaining to executive branch 
                unidentified anomalous phenomena records for which the 
                Executive Director and Review Board members may 
                disagree.
            (6) Removal.--The Executive Director shall not be removed 
        for reasons other for cause on the grounds of inefficiency, 
        neglect of duty, malfeasance in office, physical disability, 
        mental incapacity, or any other condition that substantially 
        impairs the performance of the responsibilities of the 
        Executive Director or the staff of the Review Board.
    (b) Staff.--
            (1) In general.--The Review Board, without regard to the 
        civil service laws, may appoint and terminate additional 
        personnel as are necessary to enable the Review Board and its 
        Executive Director to perform the duties of the Review Board.
            (2) Qualifications.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), a person appointed to the staff of the Review 
                Board shall be a citizen of integrity and impartiality 
                who has had no previous or current involvement with any 
                legacy program or controlling authority relating to the 
                collection, exploitation, or reverse engineering of 
                technologies of unknown origin or the examination of 
                biological evidence of living or deceased non-human 
                intelligence.
                    (B) Consultation with director of the office of 
                government ethics.--In their consideration of persons 
                to be appointed as staff of the Review Board under 
                paragraph (1), the Review Board shall consult with the 
                Director--
                            (i) to determine criteria for possible 
                        conflicts of interest of staff of the Review 
                        Board, consistent with ethics laws, statutes, 
                        and regulations for employees of the executive 
                        branch of the Federal Government; and
                            (ii) ensure that no person selected for 
                        such position of staff of the Review Board 
                        possesses a conflict of interests in accordance 
                        with the criteria determined pursuant to clause 
                        (i).
            (3) Security clearances.--(A) A candidate for staff shall 
        be granted the necessary security clearances (including all 
        necessary special access program clearances) in an accelerated 
        manner subject to the standard procedures for granting such 
        clearances.
            (B)(i) The Review Board may offer conditional employment to 
        a candidate for a staff position pending the completion of 
        security clearance background investigations. During the 
        pendency of such investigations, the Review Board shall ensure 
        that any such employee does not have access to, or 
        responsibility involving, classified or otherwise restricted 
        unidentified anomalous phenomena record materials.
            (ii) If a person hired on a conditional basis under clause 
        (i) is denied or otherwise does not qualify for all security 
        clearances necessary to carry out the responsibilities of the 
        position for which conditional employment has been offered, the 
        Review Board shall immediately terminate the person's 
        employment.
            (4) Support from national declassification center.--The 
        Archivist shall assign one representative in full-time 
        equivalent status from the National Declassification Center to 
        advise and support the Review Board disclosure postponement 
        review process in a non-voting staff capacity.
    (c) Compensation.--Subject to such rules as may be adopted by the 
Review Board, without regard to the provisions of title 5, United 
States Code, governing appointments in the competitive service and 
without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of 
chapter 53 of that title relating to classification and General 
Schedule pay rates--
            (1) the Executive Director shall be compensated at a rate 
        not to exceed the rate of basic pay for level II of the 
        Executive Schedule and shall serve the entire tenure as one 
        full-time equivalent; and
            (2) the Executive Director shall appoint and fix 
        compensation of such other personnel as may be necessary to 
        carry out this division.
    (d) Advisory Committees.--
            (1) Authority.--The Review Board may create advisory 
        committees to assist in fulfilling the responsibilities of the 
        Review Board under this division.
            (2) FACA.--Any advisory committee created by the Review 
        Board shall be subject to chapter 10 of title 5, United States 
        Code.
    (e) Security Clearance Required.--An individual employed in any 
position by the Review Board (including an individual appointed as 
Executive Director) shall be required to qualify for any necessary 
security clearance prior to taking office in that position, but may be 
employed conditionally in accordance with subsection (b)(3)(B) before 
qualifying for that clearance.

SEC. 9009. REVIEW OF RECORDS BY THE UNIDENTIFIED ANOMALOUS PHENOMENA 
              RECORDS REVIEW BOARD.

    (a) Custody of Records Reviewed by Review Board.--Pending the 
outcome of a review of activity by the Review Board, a Government 
office shall retain custody of its unidentified anomalous phenomena 
records for purposes of preservation, security, and efficiency, 
unless--
            (1) the Review Board requires the physical transfer of 
        records for reasons of conducting an independent and impartial 
        review; or
            (2) such transfer is necessary for an administrative 
        hearing or other official Review Board function.
    (b) Startup Requirements.--The Review Board shall--
            (1) not later than 90 days after the date of its 
        appointment, publish a schedule in the Federal Register for 
        review of all unidentified anomalous phenomena records;
            (2) not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, begin its review of unidentified anomalous 
        phenomena records under this division; and
            (3) periodically thereafter as warranted, but not less 
        frequently than semiannually, publish a revised schedule in the 
        Federal Register addressing the review and inclusion of any 
        unidentified anomalous phenomena records subsequently 
        discovered.
    (c) Determinations of the Review Board.--
            (1) In general.--The Review Board shall direct that all 
        unidentified anomalous phenomena records be transmitted to the 
        Archivist and disclosed to the public in the Collection in the 
        absence of clear and convincing evidence that--
                    (A) a Government record is not an unidentified 
                anomalous phenomena record; or
                    (B) a Government record, or particular information 
                within an unidentified anomalous phenomena record, 
                qualifies for postponement of public disclosure under 
                this division.
            (2) Requirements.--In approving postponement of public 
        disclosure of a unidentified anomalous phenomena record, the 
        Review Board shall seek to--
                    (A) provide for the disclosure of segregable parts, 
                substitutes, or summaries of such a record; and
                    (B) determine, in consultation with the originating 
                body and consistent with the standards for postponement 
                under this division, which of the following alternative 
                forms of disclosure shall be made by the originating 
                body:
                            (i) Any reasonably segregable particular 
                        information in a unidentified anomalous 
                        phenomena record.
                            (ii) A substitute record for that 
                        information which is postponed.
                            (iii) A summary of a unidentified anomalous 
                        phenomena record.
            (3) Controlled disclosure campaign plan.--With respect to 
        unidentified anomalous phenomena records, particular 
        information in unidentified anomalous phenomena records, 
        recovered technologies of unknown origin, and biological 
        evidence for non-human intelligence the public disclosure of 
        which is postponed pursuant to section 9006, or for which only 
        substitutions or summaries have been disclosed to the public, 
        the Review Board shall create and transmit to the President, 
        the Archivist, the Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee on 
        Oversight and Accountability of the House of Representatives a 
        Controlled Disclosure Campaign Plan, with classified appendix, 
        containing--
                    (A) a description of actions by the Review Board, 
                the originating body, the President, or any Government 
                office (including a justification of any such action to 
                postpone disclosure of any record or part of any 
                record) and of any official proceedings conducted by 
                the Review Board with regard to specific unidentified 
                anomalous phenomena records; and
                    (B) a benchmark-driven plan, based upon a review of 
                the proceedings and in conformity with the decisions 
                reflected therein, recommending precise requirements 
                for periodic review, downgrading, and declassification 
                as well as the exact time or specified occurrence 
                following which each postponed item may be 
                appropriately disclosed to the public under this 
                division.
            (4) Notice following review and determination.--(A) 
        Following its review and a determination that a unidentified 
        anomalous phenomena record shall be publicly disclosed in the 
        Collection or postponed for disclosure and held in the 
        protected Collection, the Review Board shall notify the head of 
        the originating body of the determination of the Review Board 
        and publish a copy of the determination in the Federal Register 
        within 14 days after the determination is made.
            (B) Contemporaneous notice shall be made to the President 
        for Review Board determinations regarding unidentified 
        anomalous phenomena records of the executive branch of the 
        Federal Government, and to the oversight committees designated 
        in this division in the case of records of the legislative 
        branch of the Federal Government. Such notice shall contain a 
        written unclassified justification for public disclosure or 
        postponement of disclosure, including an explanation of the 
        application of any standards contained in section 9006.
    (d) Presidential Authority Over Review Board Determination.--
            (1) Public disclosure or postponement of disclosure.--After 
        the Review Board has made a formal determination concerning the 
        public disclosure or postponement of disclosure of an 
        unidentified anomalous phenomena record of the executive branch 
        of the Federal Government or information within such a record, 
        or of any information contained in a unidentified anomalous 
        phenomena record, obtained or developed solely within the 
        executive branch of the Federal Government, the President 
        shall--
                    (A) have the sole and nondelegable authority to 
                require the disclosure or postponement of such record 
                or information under the standards set forth in section 
                9006; and
                    (B) provide the Review Board with both an 
                unclassified and classified written certification 
                specifying the President's decision within 30 days 
                after the Review Board's determination and notice to 
                the executive branch agency as required under this 
                division, stating the justification for the President's 
                decision, including the applicable grounds for 
                postponement under section 9006, accompanied by a copy 
                of the identification aid required under section 9004.
            (2) Periodic review.--(A) Any unidentified anomalous 
        phenomena record postponed by the President shall henceforth be 
        subject to the requirements of periodic review, downgrading, 
        declassification, and public disclosure in accordance with the 
        recommended timeline and associated requirements specified in 
        the Controlled Disclosure Campaign Plan unless these conflict 
        with the standards set forth in section 9006.
            (B) This paragraph supersedes all prior declassification 
        review standards that may previously have been deemed 
        applicable to unidentified anomalous phenomena records.
            (3) Record of presidential postponement.--The Review Board 
        shall, upon its receipt--
                    (A) publish in the Federal Register a copy of any 
                unclassified written certification, statement, and 
                other materials transmitted by or on behalf of the 
                President with regard to postponement of unidentified 
                anomalous phenomena records; and
                    (B) revise or amend recommendations in the 
                Controlled Disclosure Campaign Plan accordingly.
    (e) Notice to Public.--Every 30 calendar days, beginning on the 
date that is 60 calendar days after the date on which the Review Board 
first approves the postponement of disclosure of a unidentified 
anomalous phenomena record, the Review Board shall publish in the 
Federal Register a notice that summarizes the postponements approved by 
the Review Board or initiated by the President, the Senate, or the 
House of Representatives, including a description of the subject, 
originating agency, length or other physical description, and each 
ground for postponement that is relied upon to the maximum extent 
classification restrictions permitting.
    (f) Reports by the Review Board.--
            (1) In general.--The Review Board shall report its 
        activities to the leadership of Congress, the Committee on 
        Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate, the 
        Committee on Oversight and Reform of the House of 
        Representatives, the President, the Archivist, and the head of 
        any Government office whose records have been the subject of 
        Review Board activity.
            (2) First report.--The first report shall be issued on the 
        date that is 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, 
        and subsequent reports every 1 year thereafter until 
        termination of the Review Board.
            (3) Contents.--A report under paragraph (1) shall include 
        the following information:
                    (A) A financial report of the expenses for all 
                official activities and requirements of the Review 
                Board and its personnel.
                    (B) The progress made on review, transmission to 
                the Archivist, and public disclosure of unidentified 
                anomalous phenomena records.
                    (C) The estimated time and volume of unidentified 
                anomalous phenomena records involved in the completion 
                of the Review Board's performance under this division.
                    (D) Any special problems, including requests and 
                the level of cooperation of Government offices, with 
                regard to the ability of the Review Board to operate as 
                required by this division.
                    (E) A record of review activities, including a 
                record of postponement decisions by the Review Board or 
                other related actions authorized by this division, and 
                a record of the volume of records reviewed and 
                postponed.
                    (F) Suggestions and requests to Congress for 
                additional legislative authority needs.
            (4) Copies and briefs.--Coincident with the reporting 
        requirements in paragraph (2), or more frequently as warranted 
        by new information, the Review Board shall provide copies to, 
        and fully brief, at a minimum the President, the Archivist, 
        leadership of Congress, the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the 
        Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Oversight and Accountability of the 
        House of Representatives, and the Chairs and Chairmen, as the 
        case may be, and Ranking Members and Vice Chairmen, as the case 
        may be, of such other committees as leadership of Congress 
        determines appropriate on the Controlled Disclosure Campaign 
        Plan, classified appendix, and postponed disclosures, 
        specifically addressing--
                    (A) recommendations for periodic review, 
                downgrading, and declassification as well as the exact 
                time or specified occurrence following which specific 
                unidentified anomalous phenomena records and material 
                may be appropriately disclosed;
                    (B) the rationale behind each postponement 
                determination and the recommended means to achieve 
                disclosure of each postponed item;
                    (C) any other findings that the Review Board 
                chooses to offer; and
                    (D) an addendum containing copies of reports of 
                postponed records to the Archivist required under 
                subsection (c)(3) made since the date of the preceding 
                report under this subsection.
            (5) Notice.--At least 90 calendar days before completing 
        its work, the Review Board shall provide written notice to the 
        President and Congress of its intention to terminate its 
        operations at a specified date.
            (6) Briefing the all-domain anomaly resolution office.--
        Coincident with the provision in paragraph (5), if not 
        accomplished earlier under paragraph (4), the Review Board 
        shall brief the All-domain Anomaly Resolution Office 
        established pursuant to section 1683 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (50 U.S.C. 3373), or its 
        successor, as subsequently designated by Act of Congress, on 
        the Controlled Disclosure Campaign Plan, classified appendix, 
        and postponed disclosures.

SEC. 9010. DISCLOSURE OF RECOVERED TECHNOLOGIES OF UNKNOWN ORIGIN AND 
              BIOLOGICAL EVIDENCE OF NON-HUMAN INTELLIGENCE.

    (a) Exercise of Eminent Domain.--The Federal Government shall 
exercise eminent domain over any and all recovered technologies of 
unknown origin and biological evidence of non-human intelligence that 
may be controlled by private persons or entities in the interests of 
the public good.
    (b) Availability to Review Board.--Any and all such material, 
should it exist, shall be made available to the Review Board for 
personal examination and subsequent disclosure determination at a 
location suitable to the controlling authority of said material and in 
a timely manner conducive to the objectives of the Review Board in 
accordance with the requirements of this division.
    (c) Actions of Review Board.--In carrying out subsection (b), the 
Review Board shall consider and render decisions--
            (1) whether the material examined constitutes technologies 
        of unknown origin or biological evidence of non-human 
        intelligence beyond a reasonable doubt;
            (2) whether recovered technologies of unknown origin, 
        biological evidence of non-human intelligence, or a particular 
        subset of material qualifies for postponement of disclosure 
        under this division; and
            (3) what changes, if any, to the current disposition of 
        said material should the Federal Government make to facilitate 
        full disclosure.
    (d) Review Board Access to Testimony and Witnesses.--The Review 
Board shall have access to all testimony from unidentified anomalous 
phenomena witnesses, close observers and legacy program personnel and 
whistleblowers within the Federal Government's possession as of and 
after the date of the enactment of this Act in furtherance of Review 
Board disclosure determination responsibilities in section 9007(h) and 
subsection (c) of this section.
    (e) Solicitation of Additional Witnesses.--The Review Board shall 
solicit additional unidentified anomalous phenomena witness and 
whistleblower testimony and afford protections under section 1673(b) of 
the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2023 (50 U.S.C. 3373b(b)) if deemed beneficial in fulfilling Review 
Board responsibilities under this division.

SEC. 9011. DISCLOSURE OF OTHER MATERIALS AND ADDITIONAL STUDY.

    (a) Materials Under Seal of Court.--
            (1) Information held under seal of a court.--The Review 
        Board may request the Attorney General to petition any court in 
        the United States or abroad to release any information relevant 
        to unidentified anomalous phenomena, technologies of unknown 
        origin, or non-human intelligence that is held under seal of 
        the court.
            (2) Information held under injunction of secretary of grand 
        jury.--(A) The Review Board may request the Attorney General to 
        petition any court in the United States to release any 
        information relevant to unidentified anomalous phenomena, 
        technologies of unknown origin, or non-human intelligence that 
        is held under the injunction of secrecy of a grand jury.
            (B) A request for disclosure of unidentified anomalous 
        phenomena, technologies of unknown origin, and non-human 
        intelligence materials under this division shall be deemed to 
        constitute a showing of particularized need under rule 6 of the 
        Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of the Congress that--
            (1) the Attorney General should assist the Review Board in 
        good faith to unseal any records that the Review Board 
        determines to be relevant and held under seal by a court or 
        under the injunction of secrecy of a grand jury;
            (2) the Secretary of State should contact any foreign 
        government that may hold material relevant to unidentified 
        anomalous phenomena, technologies of unknown origin, or non-
        human intelligence and seek disclosure of such material; and
            (3) all heads of Executive agencies should cooperate in 
        full with the Review Board to seek the disclosure of all 
        material relevant to unidentified anomalous phenomena, 
        technologies of unknown origin, and non-human intelligence 
        consistent with the public interest.

SEC. 9012. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.

    (a) Precedence Over Other Law.--When this division requires 
transmission of a record to the Archivist or public disclosure, it 
shall take precedence over any other provision of law (except section 
6103 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 specifying confidentiality 
and disclosure of tax returns and tax return information), judicial 
decision construing such provision of law, or common law doctrine that 
would otherwise prohibit such transmission or disclosure, with the 
exception of deeds governing access to or transfer or release of gifts 
and donations of records to the United States Government.
    (b) Freedom of Information Act.--Nothing in this division shall be 
construed to eliminate or limit any right to file requests with any 
executive agency or seek judicial review of the decisions pursuant to 
section 552 of title 5, United States Code.
    (c) Judicial Review.--Nothing in this division shall be construed 
to preclude judicial review, under chapter 7 of title 5, United States 
Code, of final actions taken or required to be taken under this 
division.
    (d) Existing Authority.--Nothing in this division revokes or limits 
the existing authority of the President, any executive agency, the 
Senate, or the House of Representatives, or any other entity of the 
Federal Government to publicly disclose records in its possession.
    (e) Rules of the Senate and House of Representatives.--To the 
extent that any provision of this division establishes a procedure to 
be followed in the Senate or the House of Representatives, such 
provision is adopted--
            (1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate 
        and House of Representatives, respectively, and is deemed to be 
        part of the rules of each House, respectively, but applicable 
        only with respect to the procedure to be followed in that 
        House, and it supersedes other rules only to the extent that it 
        is inconsistent with such rules; and
            (2) with full recognition of the constitutional right of 
        either House to change the rules (so far as they relate to the 
        procedure of that House) at any time, in the same manner, and 
        to the same extent as in the case of any other rule of that 
        House.

SEC. 9013. TERMINATION OF EFFECT OF DIVISION.

    (a) Provisions Pertaining to the Review Board.--The provisions of 
this division that pertain to the appointment and operation of the 
Review Board shall cease to be effective when the Review Board and the 
terms of its members have terminated pursuant to section 9007(n).
    (b) Other Provisions.--(1) The remaining provisions of this 
division shall continue in effect until such time as the Archivist 
certifies to the President and Congress that all unidentified anomalous 
phenomena records have been made available to the public in accordance 
with this division.
    (2) In facilitation of the provision in paragraph (1), the All-
domain Anomaly Resolution Office established pursuant to section 1683 
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (50 
U.S.C. 3373), or its successor as subsequently designated by Act of 
Congress, shall develop standardized unidentified anomalous phenomena 
declassification guidance applicable to any and all unidentified 
anomalous phenomena records generated by originating bodies subsequent 
to termination of the Review Board consistent with the requirements and 
intent of the Controlled Disclosure Campaign Plan with respect to 
unidentified anomalous phenomena records originated prior to Review 
Board termination.

SEC. 9014. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out the provisions 
of this division $20,000,000 for fiscal year 2024.

SEC. 9015. SEVERABILITY.

    If any provision of this division or the application thereof to any 
person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of this division 
and the application of that provision to other persons not similarly 
situated or to other circumstances shall not be affected by the 
invalidation.

      DIVISION H--ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL APPOINTMENT ACT OF 2023

SEC. 10001. SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Architect of the Capitol 
Appointment Act of 2023''.

SEC. 10002. APPOINTMENT AND TERM OF SERVICE OF ARCHITECT OF THE 
              CAPITOL.

    (a) Appointment.--The Architect of the Capitol shall be appointed, 
without regard to political affiliation and solely on the basis of 
fitness to perform the duties of the office, upon a majority vote of a 
congressional commission (referred to in this section as the 
``commission'') consisting of the Speaker of the House of 
Representatives, the majority leader of the Senate, the minority 
leaders of the House of Representatives and Senate, the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives, the chairman and ranking minority member of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on House Administration of the House 
of Representatives, and the chairman and ranking minority member of the 
Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate.
    (b) Term of Service.--The Architect of the Capitol shall be 
appointed for a term of 10 years and, upon a majority vote of the 
members of the commission, may be reappointed for additional 10-year 
terms.
    (c) Removal.--The Architect of the Capitol may be removed from 
office at any time upon a majority vote of the members of the 
commission.
    (d) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 319 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
        Act, 1990 (2 U.S.C. 1801) is repealed.
            (2) The matter under the heading ``For the Capitol:'' under 
        the heading ``DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR.'' of the Act of 
        February 14, 1902 (32 Stat. 19, chapter 17; incorporated in 2 
        U.S.C. 1811) is amended by striking ``, and he shall be 
        appointed by the President''.
    (e) Effective Date.--This section, and the amendments made by this 
section, shall apply with respect to appointments made on or after the 
date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 10003. APPOINTMENT OF DEPUTY ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL; VACANCY IN 
              ARCHITECT OR DEPUTY ARCHITECT.

    Section 1203 of title I of division H of the Consolidated 
Appropriations Resolution, 2003 (2 U.S.C. 1805) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by inserting ``(in this section referred to as 
                the `Architect')'' after ``The Architect of the 
                Capitol''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``(in this section referred to as 
                the `Deputy Architect')'' after ``Deputy Architect of 
                the Capitol'';
            (2) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c);
            (3) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
    ``(b) Deadline.--The Architect shall appoint a Deputy Architect 
under subsection (a) not later than 120 days after--
            ``(1) the date on which the Architect is appointed under 
        section 10002 of the Architect of the Capitol Appointment Act 
        of 2023, if there is no Deputy Architect on the date of the 
        appointment; or
            ``(2) the date on which a vacancy arises in the office of 
        the Deputy Architect.'';
            (4) in subsection (c), as so redesignated, by striking ``of 
        the Capitol'' each place it appears; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Failure To Appoint.--If the Architect does not appoint a 
Deputy Architect on or before the applicable date specified in 
subsection (b), the congressional commission described in section 
10002(a) of the Architect of the Capitol Appointment Act of 2023 shall 
appoint the Deputy Architect by a majority vote of the members of the 
commission.
    ``(e) Notification.--If the position of Deputy Architect becomes 
vacant, the Architect shall immediately notify the members of the 
congressional commission described in section 10002(a) of the Architect 
of the Capitol Appointment Act of 2023.''.

SEC. 10004. DEPUTY ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL TO SERVE AS ACTING IN CASE 
              OF ABSENCE, DISABILITY, OR VACANCY.

    (a) In General.--The Deputy Architect of the Capitol (in this 
section referred to as the ``Deputy Architect'') shall act as Architect 
of the Capitol (in this section referred to as the ``Architect'') if 
the Architect is absent or disabled or there is no Architect.
    (b) Absence, Disability, or Vacancy in Office of Deputy 
Architect.--For purposes of subsection (a), if the Deputy Architect is 
also absent or disabled or there is no Deputy Architect, the 
congressional commission described in section 10002(a) shall designate, 
by a majority vote of the members of the commission, an individual to 
serve as acting Architect until--
            (1) the end of the absence or disability of the Architect 
        or the Deputy Architect; or
            (2) in the case of vacancies in both positions, an 
        Architect has been appointed under section 10002(a).
    (c) Authority.--An officer serving as acting Architect under 
subsection (a) or (b) shall perform all the duties and exercise all the 
authorities of the Architect, including the authority to delegate the 
duties and authorities of the Architect in accordance with the matter 
under the heading ``Office of the Architect of the Capitol'' under the 
heading ``ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL'' of the Legislative Appropriation 
Act, 1956 (2 U.S.C. 1803).
    (d) Conforming Amendment.--The matter under the heading 
``salaries'' under the heading ``Office of the Architect of the 
Capitol'' under the heading ``ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL'' of the 
Legislative Branch Appropriation Act, 1971 (2 U.S.C. 1804) is amended 
by striking ``: Provided,'' and all that follows through ``no 
Architect''.

     DIVISION I--FAIR DEBT COLLECTION PRACTICES FOR SERVICEMEMBERS

SEC. 11001. SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Fair Debt Collection Practices 
for Servicemembers Act''.

SEC. 11002. ENHANCED PROTECTION AGAINST DEBT COLLECTOR HARASSMENT OF 
              SERVICEMEMBERS.

    (a) Communication in Connection With Debt Collection.--Section 805 
of the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (15 U.S.C. 1692c) is amended 
by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Communications Concerning Servicemember Debts.--
            ``(1) Definition.--In this subsection, the term `covered 
        member' means--
                    ``(A) a covered member or a dependent as defined in 
                section 987(i) of title 10, United States Code; and
                    ``(B)(i) an individual who was separated, 
                discharged, or released from duty described in such 
                section 987(i)(1), but only during the 365-day period 
                beginning on the date of separation, discharge, or 
                release; or
                    ``(ii) a person, with respect to an individual 
                described in clause (i), described in subparagraph (A), 
                (D), (E), or (I) of section 1072(2) of title 10, United 
                States Code.
            ``(2) Prohibitions.--A debt collector may not, in 
        connection with the collection of any debt of a covered 
        member--
                    ``(A) threaten to have the covered member reduced 
                in rank;
                    ``(B) threaten to have the covered member's 
                security clearance revoked; or
                    ``(C) threaten to have the covered member 
                prosecuted under chapter 47 of title 10, United States 
                Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice).''.
    (b) Unfair Practices.--Section 808 of the Fair Debt Collection 
Practices Act (15 U.S.C. 1692f) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
            ``(9) The representation to any covered member (as defined 
        under section 805(e)(1)) that failure to cooperate with a debt 
        collector will result in--
                    ``(A) a reduction in rank of the covered member;
                    ``(B) a revocation of the covered member's security 
                clearance; or
                    ``(C) prosecution under chapter 47 of title 10, 
                United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military 
                Justice).''.

SEC. 11003. GAO STUDY.

    The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a study 
and submit a report to Congress on the impact of this division on--
            (1) the timely delivery of information to a covered member 
        (as defined in section 805(e) of the Fair Debt Collection 
        Practices Act, as added by this division);
            (2) military readiness; and
            (3) national security, including the extent to which 
        covered members with security clearances would be impacted by 
        uncollected debt.

 DIVISION J--NATIVE AMERICAN HOUSING ASSISTANCE AND SELF-DETERMINATION 
                      REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2023

SEC. 11001. SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Native American Housing 
Assistance and Self-Determination Reauthorization Act of 2023''.

SEC. 11002. CONSOLIDATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW REQUIREMENTS.

    Section 105 of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4115) is amended by adding at the 
end the following:
    ``(e) Consolidation of Environmental Review Requirements.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the case of a recipient of grant 
        amounts under this Act that is carrying out a project that 
        qualifies as an affordable housing activity under section 202, 
        if the recipient is using 1 or more additional sources of 
        Federal funds to carry out the project, and the grant amounts 
        received under this Act constitute the largest single source of 
        Federal funds that the recipient reasonably expects to commit 
        to the project at the time of environmental review, the Indian 
        tribe of the recipient may assume, in addition to all of the 
        responsibilities for environmental review, decision making, and 
        action under subsection (a), all of the additional 
        responsibilities for environmental review, decision making, and 
        action under provisions of law that would apply to each Federal 
        agency providing additional funding were the Federal agency to 
        carry out the project as a Federal project.
            ``(2) Discharge.--The assumption by the Indian tribe of the 
        additional responsibilities for environmental review, decision 
        making, and action under paragraph (1) with respect to a 
        project shall be deemed to discharge the responsibility of the 
        applicable Federal agency for environmental review, decision 
        making, and action with respect to the project.
            ``(3) Certification.--An Indian tribe that assumes the 
        additional responsibilities under paragraph (1), shall certify, 
        in addition to the requirements under subsection (c)--
                    ``(A) the additional responsibilities that the 
                Indian tribe has fully carried out under this 
                subsection; and
                    ``(B) that the certifying officer consents to 
                assume the status of a responsible Federal official 
                under the provisions of law that would apply to each 
                Federal agency providing additional funding under 
                paragraph (1).
            ``(4) Liability.--
                    ``(A) In general.--An Indian tribe that completes 
                an environmental review under this subsection shall 
                assume sole liability for the content and quality of 
                the review.
                    ``(B) Remedies and sanctions.--Except as provided 
                in subparagraph (C), if the Secretary approves a 
                certification and release of funds to an Indian tribe 
                for a project in accordance with subsection (b), but 
                the Secretary or the head of another Federal agency 
                providing funding for the project subsequently learns 
                that the Indian tribe failed to carry out the 
                responsibilities of the Indian tribe as described in 
                subsection (a) or paragraph (1), as applicable, the 
                Secretary or other head, as applicable, may impose 
                appropriate remedies and sanctions in accordance with--
                            ``(i) the regulations issued pursuant to 
                        section 106; or
                            ``(ii) such regulations as are issued by 
                        the other head.
                    ``(C) Statutory violation waivers.--If the 
                Secretary waives the requirements under this section in 
                accordance with subsection (d) with respect to a 
                project for which an Indian tribe assumes additional 
                responsibilities under paragraph (1), the waiver shall 
                prohibit any other Federal agency providing additional 
                funding for the project from imposing remedies or 
                sanctions for failure to comply with requirements for 
                environmental review, decision making, and action under 
                provisions of law that would apply to the Federal 
                agency.''.

SEC. 11003. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Section 108 of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4117) is amended, in the first 
sentence, by striking ``2009 through 2013'' and inserting ``2024 
through 2030''.

SEC. 11004. STUDENT HOUSING ASSISTANCE.

    Section 202(3) of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4132(3)) is amended by inserting 
``including college housing assistance'' after ``self-sufficiency and 
other services,''.

SEC. 11005. APPLICATION OF RENT RULE ONLY TO UNITS OWNED OR OPERATED BY 
              INDIAN TRIBE OR TRIBALLY DESIGNATED HOUSING ENTITY.

    Section 203(a)(2) of the Native American Housing Assistance and 
Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4133(a)(2)) is amended by 
inserting ``owned or operated by a recipient and'' after ``residing in 
a dwelling unit''.

SEC. 11006. DE MINIMIS EXEMPTION FOR PROCUREMENT OF GOODS AND SERVICES.

    Section 203(g) of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4133(g)) is amended by striking 
``$5,000'' and inserting ``$7,000''.

SEC. 11007. HOMEOWNERSHIP OR LEASE-TO-OWN LOW-INCOME REQUIREMENT AND 
              INCOME TARGETING.

    Section 205 of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4135) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(E) notwithstanding any other provision of this 
                paragraph, in the case of rental housing that is made 
                available to a current rental family for conversion to 
                a homebuyer or a lease-purchase unit, that the current 
                rental family can purchase through a contract of sale, 
                lease-purchase agreement, or any other sales agreement, 
                is made available for purchase only by the current 
                rental family, if the rental family was a low-income 
                family at the time of their initial occupancy of such 
                unit; and''; and
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by striking ``The provisions'' and inserting 
                the following:
            ``(1) In general.--The provisions''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Applicability to improvements.--The provisions of 
        subsection (a)(2) regarding binding commitments for the 
        remaining useful life of property shall not apply to 
        improvements of privately owned homes if the cost of the 
        improvements do not exceed 10 percent of the maximum total 
        development cost for the home.''.

SEC. 11008. LEASE REQUIREMENTS AND TENANT SELECTION.

    Section 207 of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4137) is amended by adding at the 
end the following:
    ``(c) Notice of Termination.--The notice period described in 
subsection (a)(3) shall apply to projects and programs funded in part 
by amounts authorized under this Act.''.

SEC. 11009. INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle A of title II of the Native American 
Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4131 
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 211. IHS SANITATION FACILITIES CONSTRUCTION.

    ``Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Director of the 
Indian Health Service, or a recipient receiving funding for a housing 
construction or renovation project under this title, may use funding 
from the Indian Health Service for the construction of sanitation 
facilities under that project.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 
1996 (Public Law 104-330; 110 Stat. 4016) is amended by inserting after 
the item relating to section 210 the following:

``Sec. 211. IHS sanitation facilities construction.''.

SEC. 11010. STATUTORY AUTHORITY TO SUSPEND GRANT FUNDS IN EMERGENCIES.

    Section 401(a)(4) of the Native American Housing Assistance and 
Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4161(a)(4)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``may take an action 
        described in paragraph (1)(C)'' and inserting ``may immediately 
        take an action described in paragraph (1)(C)''; and
            (2) by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the 
        following:
                    ``(B) Procedural requirements.--
                            ``(i) In general.--If the Secretary takes 
                        an action described in subparagraph (A), the 
                        Secretary shall provide notice to the recipient 
                        at the time that the Secretary takes that 
                        action.
                            ``(ii) Notice requirements.--The notice 
                        under clause (i) shall inform the recipient 
                        that the recipient may request a hearing by not 
                        later than 30 days after the date on which the 
                        Secretary provides the notice.
                            ``(iii) Hearing requirements.--A hearing 
                        requested under clause (ii) shall be 
                        conducted--
                                    ``(I) in accordance with subpart A 
                                of part 26 of title 24, Code of Federal 
                                Regulations (or successor regulations); 
                                and
                                    ``(II) to the maximum extent 
                                practicable, on an expedited basis.
                            ``(iv) Failure to conduct a hearing.--If a 
                        hearing requested under clause (ii) is not 
                        completed by the date that is 180 days after 
                        the date on which the recipient requests the 
                        hearing, the action of the Secretary to limit 
                        the availability of payments shall no longer be 
                        effective.''.

SEC. 11011. REPORTS TO CONGRESS.

    Section 407 of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4167) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``Congress'' and 
        inserting ``Committee on Indian Affairs and the Committee on 
        Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
        Representatives''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Public Availability.--The report described in subsection (a) 
shall be made publicly available, including to recipients.''.

SEC. 11012. 99-YEAR LEASEHOLD INTEREST IN TRUST OR RESTRICTED LANDS FOR 
              HOUSING PURPOSES.

    Section 702 of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4211) is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``50-year'' and 
        inserting ``99-year'';
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``50 years'' and 
        inserting ``99 years''; and
            (3) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ``50 years'' and 
        inserting ``99 years''.

SEC. 11013. AMENDMENTS FOR BLOCK GRANTS FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING 
              ACTIVITIES.

    Section 802(e) of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4222(e)) is amended by--
            (1) by striking ``The Director'' and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(1) In general.--The Director''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Subawards.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, including provisions of State law requiring competitive 
        procurement, the Director may make subawards to subrecipients, 
        except for for-profit entities, using amounts provided under 
        this title to carry out affordable housing activities upon a 
        determination by the Director that such subrecipients have 
        adequate capacity to carry out activities in accordance with 
        this Act.''.

SEC. 11014. REAUTHORIZATION OF NATIVE HAWAIIAN HOMEOWNERSHIP 
              PROVISIONS.

    Section 824 of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4243) is amended by striking 
``such sums as may be necessary'' and all that follows through the 
period at the end and inserting ``such sums as may be necessary for 
each of fiscal years 2024 through 2030.''.

SEC. 11015. TOTAL DEVELOPMENT COST MAXIMUM PROJECT COST.

    Affordable housing (as defined in section 4 of the Native American 
Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4103)) 
that is developed, acquired, or assisted under the block grant program 
established under section 101 of the Native American Housing Assistance 
and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4111) shall not exceed by 
more than 20 percent, without prior approval of the Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development, the total development cost maximum cost 
for all housing assisted under an affordable housing activity, 
including development and model activities.

SEC. 11016. COMMUNITY-BASED DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATIONS AND SPECIAL 
              ACTIVITIES BY INDIAN TRIBES.

    Section 105 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 
(42 U.S.C. 5305) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(i) Indian Tribes and Tribally Designated Housing Entities as 
Community-based Development Organizations.--
            ``(1) Definition.--In this subsection, the term `tribally 
        designated housing entity' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 4 of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
        Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4103).
            ``(2) Qualification.--An Indian tribe, a tribally 
        designated housing entity, or a tribal organization shall 
        qualify as a community-based development organization for 
        purposes of carrying out new housing construction under this 
        subsection under a grant made under section 106(a)(1).
    ``(j) Special Activities by Indian Tribes.--An Indian tribe 
receiving a grant under paragraph (1) of section 106(a)(1) shall be 
authorized to directly carry out activities described in paragraph (15) 
of such section 106(a)(1).''.

SEC. 11017. SECTION 184 INDIAN HOME LOAN GUARANTEE PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Section 184 of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 1715z-13a) is amended--
            (1) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
    ``(a) Authority.--To provide access to sources of private financing 
to Indian families, Indian housing authorities, and Indian Tribes, who 
otherwise could not acquire housing financing because of the unique 
legal status of Indian lands and the unique nature of tribal economies, 
and to expand homeownership opportunities to Indian families, Indian 
housing authorities and Indian tribes on fee simple lands, the 
Secretary may guarantee not to exceed 100 percent of the unpaid 
principal and interest due on any loan eligible under subsection (b) 
made to an Indian family, Indian housing authority, or Indian Tribe on 
trust land and fee simple land.''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
            ``(2) Eligible housing.--The loan shall be used to 
        construct, acquire, refinance, or rehabilitate 1- to 4-family 
        dwellings that are standard housing.'';
                    (B) in paragraph (4)--
                            (i) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) 
                        through (D) as clauses (i) through (iv), 
                        respectively, and adjusting the margins 
                        accordingly;
                            (ii) by striking ``The loan'' and inserting 
                        the following:
                    ``(A) In general.--The loan'';
                            (iii) in subparagraph (A), as so 
                        designated, by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(v) Any other lender that is supervised, 
                        approved, regulated, or insured by any agency 
                        of the Federal Government, including any entity 
                        certified as a community development financial 
                        institution by the Community Development 
                        Financial Institutions Fund established under 
                        section 104(a) of the Riegle Community 
                        Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 
                        1994 (12 U.S.C. 4703(a)).''; and
                            (iv) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) Direct guarantee process.--
                            ``(i) Authorization.--The Secretary may 
                        authorize qualifying lenders to participate in 
                        a direct guarantee process for approving loans 
                        under this section.
                            ``(ii) Indemnification.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--If the Secretary 
                                determines that a mortgage guaranteed 
                                through a direct guarantee process 
                                under this subparagraph was not 
                                originated in accordance with the 
                                requirements established by the 
                                Secretary, the Secretary may require 
                                the lender approved under this 
                                subparagraph to indemnify the Secretary 
                                for the loss, irrespective of whether 
                                the violation caused the mortgage 
                                default.
                                    ``(II) Fraud or 
                                misrepresentation.--If fraud or 
                                misrepresentation is involved in a 
                                direct guarantee process under this 
                                subparagraph, the Secretary shall 
                                require the original lender approved 
                                under this subparagraph to indemnify 
                                the Secretary for the loss regardless 
                                of when an insurance claim is paid.
                    ``(C) Review of mortgagees.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The Secretary may 
                        periodically review the mortgagees originating, 
                        underwriting, or servicing single family 
                        mortgage loans under this section.
                            ``(ii) Requirements.--In conducting a 
                        review under clause (i), the Secretary--
                                    ``(I) shall compare the mortgagee 
                                with other mortgagees originating or 
                                underwriting loan guarantees for Indian 
                                housing based on the rates of defaults 
                                and claims for guaranteed mortgage 
                                loans originated, underwritten, or 
                                serviced by that mortgagee;
                                    ``(II) may compare the mortgagee 
                                with such other mortgagees based on 
                                underwriting quality, geographic area 
                                served, or any commonly used factors 
                                the Secretary determines necessary for 
                                comparing mortgage default risk, 
                                provided that the comparison is of 
                                factors that the Secretary would expect 
                                to affect the default risk of mortgage 
                                loans guaranteed by the Secretary;
                            ``(iii) shall implement such comparisons by 
                        regulation, notice, or mortgagee letter; and
                                    ``(I) may terminate the approval of 
                                a mortgagee to originate, underwrite, 
                                or service loan guarantees for housing 
                                under this section if the Secretary 
                                determines that the mortgage loans 
                                originated, underwritten, or serviced 
                                by the mortgagee present an 
                                unacceptable risk to the Indian Housing 
                                Loan Guarantee Fund established under 
                                subsection (i)--
                                            ``(aa) based on a 
                                        comparison of any of the 
                                        factors set forth in this 
                                        subparagraph; or
                                            ``(bb) by a determination 
                                        that the mortgagee engaged in 
                                        fraud or misrepresentation.''; 
                                        and
                    (C) in paragraph (5)(A), by inserting before the 
                semicolon at the end the following: ``except, as 
                determined by the Secretary, when there is a loan 
                modification under subsection (h)(1)(B), the term of 
                the loan shall not exceed 40 years''.
    (b) Loan Guarantees for Indian Housing.--Section 184(i)(5) of the 
Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 1715z-
13a(i)(5)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (B), by inserting after the first 
        sentence the following: ``There are authorized to be 
        appropriated for those costs such sums as may be necessary for 
        each of fiscal years 2024 through 2030.''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``2008 through 2012'' 
        and inserting ``2024 through 2030''.

SEC. 11018. LOAN GUARANTEES FOR NATIVE HAWAIIAN HOUSING.

    Section 184A of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 
(12 U.S.C. 1715z-13b) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b), by inserting ``, and to expand 
        homeownership opportunities to Native Hawaiian families who are 
        eligible to receive a homestead under the Hawaiian Homes 
        Commission Act, 1920 (42 Stat. 108) on fee simple lands in the 
        State of Hawaii'' after ``markets'';
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
            ``(2) Eligible housing.--The loan shall be used to 
        construct, acquire, refinance, or rehabilitate 1- to 4-family 
        dwellings that are standard housing.'';
                    (B) in paragraph (4)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (B)--
                                    (I) by redesignating clause (iv) as 
                                clause (v); and
                                    (II) by adding after clause (iii) 
                                the following:
                            ``(iv) Any other lender that is supervised, 
                        approved, regulated, or insured by any agency 
                        of the Federal Government, including any entity 
                        certified as a community development financial 
                        institution by the Community Development 
                        Financial Institutions Fund established under 
                        section 104(a) of the Riegle Community 
                        Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 
                        1994 (12 U.S.C. 4703(a)).''; and
                            (ii) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) Indemnification.--
                            ``(i) In general.--If the Secretary 
                        determines that a mortgage guaranteed through a 
                        direct guarantee process under this section was 
                        not originated in accordance with the 
                        requirements established by the Secretary, the 
                        Secretary may require the lender approved under 
                        this section to indemnify the Secretary for the 
                        loss, irrespective of whether the violation 
                        caused the mortgage default.
                            ``(ii) Direct guarantee endorsement.--The 
                        Secretary may, dependent on the availability of 
                        systems development and staffing resources, 
                        delegate to eligible lenders the authority to 
                        directly endorse loans under this section.
                            ``(iii) Fraud or misrepresentation.--If 
                        fraud or misrepresentation was involved in the 
                        direct guarantee endorsement process by a 
                        lender under this section, the Secretary shall 
                        require the approved direct guarantee 
                        endorsement lender to indemnify the Secretary 
                        for any loss or potential loss, regardless of 
                        whether the fraud or misrepresentation caused 
                        or may cause the loan default.
                            ``(iv) Implementation.--The Secretary may 
                        implement any requirements described in this 
                        subparagraph by regulation, notice, or Dear 
                        Lender Letter.''.
                    (C) in paragraph (5)(A), by inserting before the 
                semicolon at the end the following: ``except, as 
                determined by the Secretary, when there is a loan 
                modification under subsection (i)(1)(B), the term of 
                the loan shall not exceed 40 years'';
            (3) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by adding at the end the 
                following:
                    ``(C) Exception.--When the Secretary exercises its 
                discretion to delegate direct guarantee endorsement 
                authority pursuant to subsection (c)(4)(C)(ii), 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B) of this paragraph shall not 
                apply.'';
                    (B) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
            ``(2) Standard for approval.--
                    ``(A) Approval.--The Secretary may approve a loan 
                for guarantee under this section and issue a 
                certificate under this subsection only if the Secretary 
                determines that there is a reasonable prospect of 
                repayment of the loan.
                    ``(B) Exceptions.--When the Secretary exercises its 
                discretion to delegate direct guarantee endorsement 
                authority pursuant to subsection (c)(4)(C)(ii)--
                            ``(i) subparagraph (A) shall not apply; and
                            ``(ii) the direct guarantee endorsement 
                        lender may issue a certificate under this 
                        paragraph as evidence of the guarantee in 
                        accordance with requirements prescribed by the 
                        Secretary.''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (3)(A), by inserting ``or, where 
                applicable, the direct guarantee endorsement lender,'' 
                after ``Secretary'' and
            (4) in subsection (j)(5)(B), by inserting after the first 
        sentence the following: ``There are authorized to be 
        appropriated for those costs such sums as may be necessary for 
        each of fiscal years 2024 through 2030.''.

SEC. 11019. DRUG ELIMINATION PROGRAM.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Controlled substance.--The term ``controlled 
        substance'' has the meaning given the term in section 102 of 
        the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802).
            (2) Drug-related crime.--The term ``drug-related crime'' 
        means the illegal manufacture, sale, distribution, use, or 
        possession with intent to manufacture, sell, distribute, or use 
        a controlled substance.
            (3) Recipient.--The term ``recipient''--
                    (A) has the meaning given the term in section 4 of 
                the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
                Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4103); and
                    (B) includes a recipient of funds under title VIII 
                of that Act (25 U.S.C. 4221 et seq.).
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Housing and Urban Development.
    (b) Establishment.--The Secretary may, in consultation with the 
Bureau of Indian Affairs and relevant Tribal law enforcement agencies, 
make grants under this section to recipients of assistance under the 
Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 
(25 U.S.C. 4101 et seq.) for use in eliminating drug-related and 
violent crime.
    (c) Eligible Activities.--Grants under this section may be used 
for--
            (1) the employment of security personnel;
            (2) reimbursement of State, local, Tribal, or Bureau of 
        Indian Affairs law enforcement agencies for additional security 
        and protective services;
            (3) physical improvements which are specifically designed 
        to enhance security;
            (4) the employment of 1 or more individuals--
                    (A) to investigate drug-related or violent crime in 
                and around the real property comprising housing 
                assisted under the Native American Housing Assistance 
                and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4101 et 
                seq.); and
                    (B) to provide evidence relating to such crime in 
                any administrative or judicial proceeding;
            (5) the provision of training, communications equipment, 
        and other related equipment for use by voluntary tenant patrols 
        acting in cooperation with law enforcement officials;
            (6) programs designed to reduce use of drugs in and around 
        housing communities funded under the Native American Housing 
        Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4101 
        et seq.), including drug-abuse prevention, intervention, 
        referral, and treatment programs;
            (7) providing funding to nonprofit resident management 
        corporations and resident councils to develop security and drug 
        abuse prevention programs involving site residents;
            (8) sports programs and sports activities that serve 
        primarily youths from housing communities funded through and 
        are operated in conjunction with, or in furtherance of, an 
        organized program or plan designed to reduce or eliminate drugs 
        and drug-related problems in and around those communities; and
            (9) other programs for youth in school settings that 
        address drug prevention and positive alternatives for youth, 
        including education and activities related to science, 
        technology, engineering, and math.
    (d) Applications.--
            (1) In general.--To receive a grant under this subsection, 
        an eligible applicant shall submit an application to the 
        Secretary, at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by--
                    (A) a plan for addressing the problem of drug-
                related or violent crime in and around of the housing 
                administered or owned by the applicant for which the 
                application is being submitted; and
                    (B) such additional information as the Secretary 
                may reasonably require.
            (2) Criteria.--The Secretary shall approve applications 
        submitted under paragraph (1) on the basis of thresholds or 
        criteria such as--
                    (A) the extent of the drug-related or violent crime 
                problem in and around the housing or projects proposed 
                for assistance;
                    (B) the quality of the plan to address the crime 
                problem in the housing or projects proposed for 
                assistance, including the extent to which the plan 
                includes initiatives that can be sustained over a 
                period of several years;
                    (C) the capability of the applicant to carry out 
                the plan; and
                    (D) the extent to which tenants, the Tribal 
                government, and the Tribal community support and 
                participate in the design and implementation of the 
                activities proposed to be funded under the application.
    (e) High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas.--In evaluating the 
extent of the drug-related crime problem pursuant to subsection (d)(2), 
the Secretary may consider whether housing or projects proposed for 
assistance are located in a high intensity drug trafficking area 
designated pursuant to section 707(b) of the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 1998 (21 U.S.C. 1706(b)).
    (f) Reports.--
            (1) Grantee reports.--The Secretary shall require grantees 
        under this section to provide periodic reports that include the 
        obligation and expenditure of grant funds, the progress made by 
        the grantee in implementing the plan described in subsection 
        (d)(1)(A), and any change in the incidence of drug-related 
        crime in projects assisted under section.
            (2) HUD reports.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a 
        report describing the system used to distribute funding to 
        grantees under this section, which shall include descriptions 
        of--
                    (A) the methodology used to distribute amounts made 
                available under this section; and
                    (B) actions taken by the Secretary to ensure that 
                amounts made available under section are not used to 
                fund baseline local government services, as described 
                in subsection (h)(2).
    (g) Notice of Funding Awards.--The Secretary shall publish on the 
website of the Department a notice of all grant awards made pursuant to 
section, which shall identify the grantees and the amount of the 
grants.
    (h) Monitoring.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall audit and monitor the 
        program funded under this subsection to ensure that assistance 
        provided under this subsection is administered in accordance 
        with the provisions of section.
            (2) Prohibition of funding baseline services.--
                    (A) In general.--Amounts provided under this 
                section may not be used to reimburse or support any 
                local law enforcement agency or unit of general local 
                government for the provision of services that are 
                included in the baseline of services required to be 
                provided by any such entity pursuant to a local 
                cooperative agreement pursuant under the Indian Self-
                Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 
                5301 et seq.) or any provision of an annual 
                contributions contract for payments in lieu of taxation 
                with the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
                    (B) Description.--Each grantee under this section 
                shall describe, in the report under subsection (f)(1), 
                such baseline of services for the unit of Tribal 
                government in which the jurisdiction of the grantee is 
                located.
            (3) Enforcement.--The Secretary shall provide for the 
        effective enforcement of this section, as specified in the 
        program requirements published in a notice by the Secretary, 
        which may include--
                    (A) the use of on-site monitoring, independent 
                public audit requirements, certification by Tribal or 
                Federal law enforcement or Tribal government officials 
                regarding the performance of baseline services referred 
                to in paragraph (2);
                    (B) entering into agreements with the Attorney 
                General to achieve compliance, and verification of 
                compliance, with the provisions of this section; and
                    (C) adopting enforcement authority that is 
                substantially similar to the authority provided to the 
                Secretary under the Native American Housing Assistance 
                and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4101 et 
                seq.)
    (i) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each fiscal years 2024 
through 2030 to carry out this section.

SEC. 11020. RENTAL ASSISTANCE FOR HOMELESS OR AT-RISK INDIAN VETERANS.

    Section 8(o)(19) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
U.S.C. 1437f(o)(19)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(E) Indian veterans housing rental assistance 
                program.--
                            ``(i) Definitions.--In this subparagraph:
                                    ``(I) Eligible indian veteran.--The 
                                term `eligible Indian veteran' means an 
                                Indian veteran who is--
                                            ``(aa) homeless or at risk 
                                        of homelessness; and
                                            ``(bb) living--

                                                    ``(AA) on or near a 
                                                reservation; or

                                                    ``(BB) in or near 
                                                any other Indian area.

                                    ``(II) Eligible recipient.--The 
                                term `eligible recipient' means a 
                                recipient eligible to receive a grant 
                                under section 101 of the Native 
                                American Housing Assistance and Self-
                                Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 
                                4111).
                                    ``(III) Indian; indian area.--The 
                                terms `Indian' and `Indian area' have 
                                the meanings given those terms in 
                                section 4 of the Native American 
                                Housing Assistance and Self-
                                Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 
                                4103).
                                    ``(IV) Indian veteran.--The term 
                                `Indian veteran' means an Indian who is 
                                a veteran.
                                    ``(V) Program.--The term `Program' 
                                means the Tribal HUD-VASH program 
                                carried out under clause (ii).
                                    ``(VI) Tribal organization.--The 
                                term `tribal organization' has the 
                                meaning given the term in section 4 of 
                                the Indian Self-Determination and 
                                Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 
                                5304).
                            ``(ii) Program specifications.--The 
                        Secretary shall use not less than 5 percent of 
                        the amounts made available for rental 
                        assistance under this paragraph to carry out a 
                        rental assistance and supported housing 
                        program, to be known as the `Tribal HUD-VASH 
                        program', in conjunction with the Secretary of 
                        Veterans Affairs, by awarding grants for the 
                        benefit of eligible Indian veterans.
                            ``(iii) Model.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--Except as 
                                provided in subclause (II), the 
                                Secretary shall model the Program on 
                                the rental assistance and supported 
                                housing program authorized under 
                                subparagraph (A) and applicable 
                                appropriations Acts, including 
                                administration in conjunction with the 
                                Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
                                    ``(II) Exceptions.--
                                            ``(aa) Secretary of housing 
                                        and urban development.--After 
                                        consultation with Indian 
                                        tribes, eligible recipients, 
                                        and any other appropriate 
                                        tribal organizations, the 
                                        Secretary may make necessary 
                                        and appropriate modifications 
                                        to facilitate the use of the 
                                        Program by eligible recipients 
                                        to serve eligible Indian 
                                        veterans.
                                            ``(bb) Secretary of 
                                        veterans affairs.--After 
                                        consultation with Indian 
                                        tribes, eligible recipients, 
                                        and any other appropriate 
                                        tribal organizations, the 
                                        Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
                                        may make necessary and 
                                        appropriate modifications to 
                                        facilitate the use of the 
                                        Program by eligible recipients 
                                        to serve eligible Indian 
                                        veterans.
                            ``(iv) Eligible recipients.--The Secretary 
                        shall make amounts for rental assistance and 
                        associated administrative costs under the 
                        Program available in the form of grants to 
                        eligible recipients.
                            ``(v) Funding criteria.--The Secretary 
                        shall award grants under the Program based on--
                                    ``(I) need;
                                    ``(II) administrative capacity; and
                                    ``(III) any other funding criteria 
                                established by the Secretary in a 
                                notice published in the Federal 
                                Register after consulting with the 
                                Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
                            ``(vi) Administration.--Grants awarded 
                        under the Program shall be administered in 
                        accordance with the Native American Housing 
                        Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 
                        (25 U.S.C. 4101 et seq.), except that 
                        recipients shall--
                                    ``(I) submit to the Secretary, in a 
                                manner prescribed by the Secretary, 
                                reports on the utilization of rental 
                                assistance provided under the Program; 
                                and
                                    ``(II) provide to the Secretary 
                                information specified by the Secretary 
                                to assess the effectiveness of the 
                                Program in serving eligible Indian 
                                veterans.
                            ``(vii) Consultation.--
                                    ``(I) Grant recipients; tribal 
                                organizations.--The Secretary, in 
                                coordination with the Secretary of 
                                Veterans Affairs, shall consult with 
                                eligible recipients and any other 
                                appropriate tribal organization on the 
                                design of the Program to ensure the 
                                effective delivery of rental assistance 
                                and supportive services to eligible 
                                Indian veterans under the Program.
                                    ``(II) Indian health service.--The 
                                Director of the Indian Health Service 
                                shall provide any assistance requested 
                                by the Secretary or the Secretary of 
                                Veterans Affairs in carrying out the 
                                Program.
                            ``(viii) Waiver.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--Except as 
                                provided in subclause (II), the 
                                Secretary may waive or specify 
                                alternative requirements for any 
                                provision of law (including 
                                regulations) that the Secretary 
                                administers in connection with the use 
                                of rental assistance made available 
                                under the Program if the Secretary 
                                finds that the waiver or alternative 
                                requirement is necessary for the 
                                effective delivery and administration 
                                of rental assistance under the Program 
                                to eligible Indian veterans.
                                    ``(II) Exception.--The Secretary 
                                may not waive or specify alternative 
                                requirements under subclause (I) for 
                                any provision of law (including 
                                regulations) relating to labor 
                                standards or the environment.
                            ``(ix) Renewal grants.--The Secretary may--
                                    ``(I) set aside, from amounts made 
                                available for tenant-based rental 
                                assistance under this subsection and 
                                without regard to the amounts used for 
                                new grants under clause (ii), such 
                                amounts as may be necessary to award 
                                renewal grants to eligible recipients 
                                that received a grant under the Program 
                                in a previous year; and
                                    ``(II) specify criteria that an 
                                eligible recipient must satisfy to 
                                receive a renewal grant under subclause 
                                (I), including providing data on how 
                                the eligible recipient used the amounts 
                                of any grant previously received under 
                                the Program.
                            ``(x) Reporting.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--Not later than 1 
                                year after the date of enactment of 
                                this subparagraph, and every 5 years 
                                thereafter, the Secretary, in 
                                coordination with the Secretary of 
                                Veterans Affairs and the Director of 
                                the Indian Health Service, shall--
                                            ``(aa) conduct a review of 
                                        the implementation of the 
                                        Program, including any factors 
                                        that may have limited its 
                                        success; and
                                            ``(bb) submit a report 
                                        describing the results of the 
                                        review under item (aa) to--

                                                    ``(AA) the 
                                                Committee on Indian 
                                                Affairs, the Committee 
                                                on Banking, Housing, 
                                                and Urban Affairs, the 
                                                Committee on Veterans' 
                                                Affairs, and the 
                                                Committee on 
                                                Appropriations of the 
                                                Senate; and

                                                    ``(BB) the 
                                                Subcommittee on Indian, 
                                                Insular and Alaska 
                                                Native Affairs of the 
                                                Committee on Natural 
                                                Resources, the 
                                                Committee on Financial 
                                                Services, the Committee 
                                                on Veterans' Affairs, 
                                                and the Committee on 
                                                Appropriations of the 
                                                House of 
                                                Representatives.

                                    ``(II) Analysis of housing stock 
                                limitation.--The Secretary shall 
                                include in the initial report submitted 
                                under subclause (I) a description of--
                                            ``(aa) any regulations 
                                        governing the use of formula 
                                        current assisted stock (as 
                                        defined in section 1000.314 of 
                                        title 24, Code of Federal 
                                        Regulations (or any successor 
                                        regulation)) within the 
                                        Program;
                                            ``(bb) the number of 
                                        recipients of grants under the 
                                        Program that have reported the 
                                        regulations described in item 
                                        (aa) as a barrier to 
                                        implementation of the Program; 
                                        and
                                            ``(cc) proposed alternative 
                                        legislation or regulations 
                                        developed by the Secretary in 
                                        consultation with recipients of 
                                        grants under the Program to 
                                        allow the use of formula 
                                        current assisted stock within 
                                        the Program.''.

SEC. 11021. CONTINUUM OF CARE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the terms ``collaborative applicant'' and ``eligible 
        entity'' have the meanings given those terms in section 401 of 
        the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11360); 
        and
            (2) the terms ``Indian tribe'' and ``tribally designated 
        housing entity'' have the meanings given those terms in section 
        4 of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
        Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4103).
    (b) Nonapplication of Civil Rights Laws.--With respect to the funds 
made available for the Continuum of Care program authorized under 
subtitle C of title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act 
(42 U.S.C. 11381 et seq.) under the heading ``Homeless Assistance 
Grants'' in the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
Appropriations Act, 2021 (Public Law 116-260) and under section 231 of 
the Department of Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act, 
2020 (42 U.S.C. 11364a), title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 
U.S.C. 2000d et seq.) and title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 
(42 U.S.C. 3601 et seq.) shall not apply to applications by or awards 
for projects to be carried out--
            (1) on or off reservation or trust lands for awards made to 
        Indian tribes or tribally designated housing entities; or
            (2) on reservation or trust lands for awards made to 
        eligible entities.
    (c) Certification.--With respect to funds made available for the 
Continuum of Care program authorized under subtitle C of title IV of 
the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11381 et seq.) 
under the heading ``Homeless Assistance Grants'' under section 231 of 
the Department of Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act, 
2020 (42 U.S.C. 11364a)--
            (1) applications for projects to be carried out on 
        reservations or trust land shall contain a certification of 
        consistency with an approved Indian housing plan developed 
        under section 102 of the Native American Housing Assistance and 
        Self-Determination Act (25 U.S.C. 4112), notwithstanding 
        section 106 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable 
        Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12706) and section 403 of the McKinney-
        Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11361);
            (2) Indian tribes and tribally designated housing entities 
        that are recipients of awards for projects on reservations or 
        trust land shall certify that they are following an approved 
        housing plan developed under section 102 of the Native American 
        Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act (25 U.S.C. 4112); 
        and
            (3) a collaborative applicant for a Continuum of Care whose 
        geographic area includes only reservation and trust land is not 
        required to meet the requirement in section 402(f)(2) of the 
        McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
        11360a(f)(2)).

SEC. 11022. LEVERAGING.

    All funds provided under a grant made pursuant to this division or 
the amendments made by this division may be used for purposes of 
meeting matching or cost participation requirements under any other 
Federal housing program, provided that such grants made pursuant to the 
Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 
(25 U.S.C. 4101 et seq.) are spent in accordance with that Act.

 DIVISION K--FORT BELKNAP INDIAN COMMUNITY WATER RIGHTS SETTLEMENT ACT 
                                OF 2023

SEC. 11001. SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Fort Belknap Indian Community 
Water Rights Settlement Act of 2023''.

SEC. 11002. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this division are--
            (1) to achieve a fair, equitable, and final settlement of 
        claims to water rights in the State of Montana for--
                    (A) the Fort Belknap Indian Community of the Fort 
                Belknap Reservation of Montana; and
                    (B) the United States, acting as trustee for the 
                Fort Belknap Indian Community and allottees;
            (2) to authorize, ratify, and confirm the water rights 
        compact entered into by the Fort Belknap Indian Community and 
        the State, to the extent that the Compact is consistent with 
        this division;
            (3) to authorize and direct the Secretary--
                    (A) to execute the Compact; and
                    (B) to take any other actions necessary to carry 
                out the Compact in accordance with this division;
            (4) to authorize funds necessary for the implementation of 
        the Compact and this division; and
            (5) to authorize the exchange and transfer of certain 
        Federal and State land.

SEC. 11003. DEFINITIONS.

    In this division:
            (1) Allottee.--The term ``allottee'' means an individual 
        who holds a beneficial real property interest in an allotment 
        of Indian land that is--
                    (A) located within the Reservation; and
                    (B) held in trust by the United States.
            (2) Blackfeet tribe.--The term ``Blackfeet Tribe'' means 
        the Blackfeet Tribe of the Blackfeet Indian Reservation of 
        Montana.
            (3) Cercla.--The term ``CERCLA'' means the Comprehensive 
        Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 
        (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.).
            (4) Commissioner.--The term ``Commissioner'' means the 
        Commissioner of Reclamation.
            (5) Compact.--The term ``Compact'' means--
                    (A) the Fort Belknap-Montana water rights compact 
                dated April 16, 2001, as contained in section 85-20-
                1001 of the Montana Code Annotated (2021); and
                    (B) any appendix (including appendix amendments), 
                part, or amendment to the Compact that is executed to 
                make the Compact consistent with this division.
            (6) Enforceability date.--The term ``enforceability date'' 
        means the date described in section 11011(f).
            (7) Fort belknap indian community.--The term ``Fort Belknap 
        Indian Community'' means the Gros Ventre and Assiniboine Tribes 
        of the Fort Belknap Reservation of Montana, a federally 
        recognized Indian Tribal entity included on the list published 
        by the Secretary pursuant to section 104(a) of the Federally 
        Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 5131(a)).
            (8) Fort belknap indian community council.--The term ``Fort 
        Belknap Indian Community Council'' means the governing body of 
        the Fort Belknap Indian Community.
            (9) Fort belknap indian irrigation project.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``Fort Belknap Indian 
                Irrigation Project'' means the Federal Indian 
                irrigation project constructed and operated by the 
                Bureau of Indian Affairs, consisting of the Milk River 
                unit, including--
                            (i) the Three Mile unit; and
                            (ii) the White Bear unit.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The term ``Fort Belknap Indian 
                Irrigation Project'' includes any addition to the Fort 
                Belknap Indian Irrigation Project constructed pursuant 
                to this division, including expansion of the Fort 
                Belknap Indian Irrigation Project, the Pumping Plant, 
                delivery Pipe and Canal, the Fort Belknap Reservoir and 
                Dam, and the Peoples Creek Flood Protection Project.
            (10) Implementation fund.--The term ``Implementation Fund'' 
        means the Fort Belknap Indian Community Water Settlement 
        Implementation Fund established by section 11013(a).
            (11) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian Tribe'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 4 of the Indian Self-
        Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).
            (12) Lake elwell.--The term ``Lake Elwell'' means the water 
        impounded on the Marias River in the State by Tiber Dam, a 
        feature of the Lower Marias Unit of the Pick-Sloan Missouri 
        River Basin Program authorized by section 9 of the Act of 
        December 22, 1944 (commonly known as the ``Flood Control Act of 
        1944'') (58 Stat. 891, chapter 665).
            (13) Malta irrigation district.--The term ``Malta 
        Irrigation District'' means the public corporation--
                    (A) created on December 28, 1923, pursuant to the 
                laws of the State relating to irrigation districts; and
                    (B) headquartered in Malta, Montana.
            (14) Milk river.--The term ``Milk River'' means the 
        mainstem of the Milk River and each tributary of the Milk River 
        between the headwaters of the Milk River and the confluence of 
        the Milk River with the Missouri River, consisting of--
                    (A) Montana Water Court Basins 40F, 40G, 40H, 40I, 
                40J, 40K, 40L, 40M, 40N, and 40O; and
                    (B) the portion of the Milk River and each 
                tributary of the Milk River that flows through the 
                Canadian Provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan.
            (15) Milk river project.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``Milk River Project'' 
                means the Bureau of Reclamation project conditionally 
                approved by the Secretary on March 14, 1903, pursuant 
                to the Act of June 17, 1902 (32 Stat. 388, chapter 
                1093), commencing at Lake Sherburne Reservoir and 
                providing water to a point approximately 6 miles east 
                of Nashua, Montana.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The term ``Milk River Project'' 
                includes--
                            (i) the St. Mary Unit;
                            (ii) the Fresno Dam and Reservoir; and
                            (iii) the Dodson pumping unit.
            (16) Missouri river basin.--The term ``Missouri River 
        Basin'' means the hydrologic basin of the Missouri River, 
        including tributaries.
            (17) Operations and maintenance.--The term ``operations and 
        maintenance'' means the Bureau of Indian Affairs operations and 
        maintenance activities related to costs described in section 
        171.500 of title 25, Code of Federal Regulations (or a 
        successor regulation).
            (18) Operations, maintenance, and replacement.--The term 
        ``operations, maintenance, and replacement'' means--
                    (A) any recurring or ongoing activity associated 
                with the day-to-day operation of a project;
                    (B) any activity relating to scheduled or 
                unscheduled maintenance of a project; and
                    (C) any activity relating to repairing, replacing, 
                or rehabilitating a feature of a project.
            (19) Pick-sloan missouri river basin program.--The term 
        ``Pick-Sloan Missouri River Basin Program'' means the Pick-
        Sloan Missouri River Basin Program (authorized by section 9 of 
        the Act of December 22, 1944 (commonly known as the ``Flood 
        Control Act of 1944'') (58 Stat. 891, chapter 665)).
            (20) PMM.--The term ``PMM'' means the Principal Meridian, 
        Montana.
            (21) Reservation.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``Reservation'' means the 
                area of the Fort Belknap Reservation in the State, as 
                modified by this division.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The term ``Reservation'' 
                includes--
                            (i) all land and interests in land 
                        established by--
                                    (I) the Agreement with the Gros 
                                Ventre and Assiniboine Tribes of the 
                                Fort Belknap Reservation, ratified by 
                                the Act of May 1, 1888 (25 Stat. 113, 
                                chapter 212), as modified by the 
                                Agreement with the Indians of the Fort 
                                Belknap Reservation of October 9, 1895 
                                (ratified by the Act of June 10, 1896) 
                                (29 Stat. 350, chapter 398);
                                    (II) the Act of March 3, 1921 (41 
                                Stat. 1355, chapter 135); and
                                    (III) Public Law 94-114 (25 U.S.C. 
                                5501 et seq.);
                            (ii) the land known as the ``Hancock 
                        lands'' purchased by the Fort Belknap Indian 
                        Community pursuant to the Fort Belknap Indian 
                        Community Council Resolution No. 234-89 
                        (October 2, 1989); and
                            (iii) all land transferred to the United 
                        States to be held in trust for the benefit of 
                        the Fort Belknap Indian Community under section 
                        11006.
            (22) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (23) St. mary unit.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``St. Mary Unit'' means 
                the St. Mary Storage Unit of the Milk River Project 
                authorized by Congress on March 25, 1905.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The term ``St. Mary Unit'' 
                includes--
                            (i) Sherburne Dam and Reservoir;
                            (ii) Swift Current Creek Dike;
                            (iii) Lower St. Mary Lake;
                            (iv) St. Mary Canal Diversion Dam; and
                            (v) St. Mary Canal and appurtenances.
            (24) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Montana.
            (25) Tribal water code.--The term ``Tribal water code'' 
        means the Tribal water code enacted by the Fort Belknap Indian 
        Community pursuant to section 11005(g).
            (26) Tribal water rights.--The term ``Tribal water rights'' 
        means the water rights of the Fort Belknap Indian Community, as 
        described in Article III of the Compact and this division, 
        including the allocation of water to the Fort Belknap Indian 
        Community from Lake Elwell under section 11007.
            (27) Trust fund.--The term ``Trust Fund'' means the Aaniiih 
        Nakoda Settlement Trust Fund established for the Fort Belknap 
        Indian Community under section 11012(a).

SEC. 11004. RATIFICATION OF COMPACT.

    (a) Ratification of Compact.--
            (1) In general.--As modified by this division, the Compact 
        is authorized, ratified, and confirmed.
            (2) Amendments.--Any amendment to the Compact is 
        authorized, ratified, and confirmed to the extent that the 
        amendment is executed to make the Compact consistent with this 
        division.
    (b) Execution.--
            (1) In general.--To the extent that the Compact does not 
        conflict with this division, the Secretary shall execute the 
        Compact, including all appendices to, or parts of, the Compact 
        requiring the signature of the Secretary.
            (2) Modifications.--Nothing in this division precludes the 
        Secretary from approving any modification to an appendix to the 
        Compact that is consistent with this division, to the extent 
        that the modification does not otherwise require congressional 
        approval under section 2116 of the Revised Statutes (25 U.S.C. 
        177) or any other applicable provision of Federal law.
    (c) Environmental Compliance.--
            (1) In general.--In implementing the Compact and this 
        division, the Secretary shall comply with all applicable 
        provisions of--
                    (A) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
                1531 et seq.);
                    (B) the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
                (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), including the implementing 
                regulations of that Act; and
                    (C) other applicable Federal environmental laws and 
                regulations.
            (2) Compliance.--
                    (A) In general.--In implementing the Compact and 
                this division, the Fort Belknap Indian Community shall 
                prepare any necessary environmental documents, except 
                for any environmental documents required under section 
                11008, consistent with all applicable provisions of--
                            (i) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 
                        U.S.C. 1531 et seq.);
                            (ii) the National Environmental Policy Act 
                        of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4231 et seq.), including the 
                        implementing regulations of that Act; and
                            (iii) all other applicable Federal 
                        environmental laws and regulations.
                    (B) Authorizations.--The Secretary shall--
                            (i) independently evaluate the 
                        documentation submitted under subparagraph (A); 
                        and
                            (ii) be responsible for the accuracy, 
                        scope, and contents of that documentation.
            (3) Effect of execution.--The execution of the Compact by 
        the Secretary under this section shall not constitute a major 
        Federal action for purposes of the National Environmental 
        Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
            (4) Costs.--Any costs associated with the performance of 
        the compliance activities described in paragraph (2) shall be 
        paid from funds deposited in the Trust Fund, subject to the 
        condition that any costs associated with the performance of 
        Federal approval or other review of such compliance work or 
        costs associated with inherently Federal functions shall remain 
        the responsibility of the Secretary.

SEC. 11005. TRIBAL WATER RIGHTS.

    (a) Confirmation of Tribal Water Rights.--
            (1) In general.--The Tribal water rights are ratified, 
        confirmed, and declared to be valid.
            (2) Use.--Any use of the Tribal water rights shall be 
        subject to the terms and conditions of the Compact and this 
        division.
            (3) Conflict.--In the event of a conflict between the 
        Compact and this division, this division shall control.
    (b) Intent of Congress.--It is the intent of Congress to provide to 
each allottee benefits that are equivalent to, or exceed, the benefits 
the allottees possess on the day before the date of enactment of this 
division, taking into consideration--
            (1) the potential risks, cost, and time delay associated 
        with litigation that would be resolved by the Compact and this 
        division;
            (2) the availability of funding under this division and 
        from other sources;
            (3) the availability of water from the Tribal water rights; 
        and
            (4) the applicability of section 7 of the Act of February 
        8, 1887 (24 Stat. 390, chapter 119; 25 U.S.C. 381), and this 
        division to protect the interests of allottees.
    (c) Trust Status of Tribal Water Rights.--The Tribal water rights--
            (1) shall be held in trust by the United States for the use 
        and benefit of the Fort Belknap Indian Community and allottees 
        in accordance with this division; and
            (2) shall not be subject to loss through non-use, 
        forfeiture, or abandonment.
    (d) Allottees.--
            (1) Applicability of the act of february 8, 1887.--The 
        provisions of section 7 of the Act of February 8, 1887 (24 
        Stat. 390, chapter 119; 25 U.S.C. 381), relating to the use of 
        water for irrigation purposes, shall apply to the Tribal water 
        rights.
            (2) Entitlement to water.--Any entitlement to water of an 
        allottee under Federal law shall be satisfied from the Tribal 
        water rights.
            (3) Allocations.--An allottee shall be entitled to a just 
        and equitable allocation of water for irrigation purposes.
            (4) Claims.--
                    (A) Exhaustion of remedies.--Before asserting any 
                claim against the United States under section 7 of the 
                Act of February 8, 1887 (24 Stat. 390, chapter 119; 25 
                U.S.C. 381), or any other applicable law, an allottee 
                shall exhaust remedies available under the Tribal water 
                code or other applicable Tribal law.
                    (B) Action for relief.--After the exhaustion of all 
                remedies available under the Tribal water code or other 
                applicable Tribal law, an allottee may seek relief 
                under section 7 of the Act of February 8, 1887 (24 
                Stat. 390, chapter 119; 25 U.S.C. 381), or other 
                applicable law.
            (5) Authority of the secretary.--The Secretary shall have 
        the authority to protect the rights of allottees in accordance 
        with this section.
    (e) Authority of the Fort Belknap Indian Community.--
            (1) In general.--The Fort Belknap Indian Community shall 
        have the authority to allocate, distribute, and lease the 
        Tribal water rights for use on the Reservation in accordance 
        with the Compact, this division, and applicable Federal law.
            (2) Off-reservation use.--The Fort Belknap Indian Community 
        may allocate, distribute, and lease the Tribal water rights for 
        off-Reservation use in accordance with the Compact, this 
        division, and applicable Federal law--
                    (A) subject to the approval of the Secretary; or
                    (B) pursuant to Tribal water leasing regulations 
                consistent with the requirements of subsection (f).
            (3) Land leases by allottees.--Notwithstanding paragraph 
        (1), an allottee may lease any interest in land held by the 
        allottee, together with any water right determined to be 
        appurtenant to the interest in land, in accordance with the 
        Tribal water code.
    (f) Tribal Water Leasing Regulations.--
            (1) In general.--At the discretion of the Fort Belknap 
        Indian Community, any water lease of the Fort Belknap Indian 
        Community of the Tribal water rights for use on or off the 
        Reservation shall not require the approval of the Secretary if 
        the lease--
                    (A) is executed under tribal regulations, approved 
                by the Secretary under this subsection;
                    (B) is in accordance with the Compact; and
                    (C) does not exceed a term of 100 years, except 
                that a lease may include an option to renew for 1 
                additional term of not to exceed 100 years.
            (2) Authority of the secretary over tribal water leasing 
        regulations.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall have the 
                authority to approve or disapprove any Tribal water 
                leasing regulations issued in accordance with paragraph 
                (1).
                    (B) Considerations for approval.--The Secretary 
                shall approve any Tribal water leasing regulations 
                issued in accordance with paragraph (1) if the Tribal 
                water leasing regulations--
                            (i) provide for an environmental review 
                        process that includes--
                                    (I) the identification and 
                                evaluation of any significant effects 
                                of the proposed action on the 
                                environment; and
                                    (II) a process for ensuring that--
                                            (aa) the public is informed 
                                        of, and has a reasonable 
                                        opportunity to comment on, any 
                                        significant environmental 
                                        impacts of the proposed action 
                                        identified by the Fort Belknap 
                                        Indian Community; and
                                            (bb) the Fort Belknap 
                                        Indian Community provides 
                                        responses to relevant and 
                                        substantive public comments on 
                                        those impacts prior to its 
                                        approval of a water lease; and
                            (ii) are consistent with this division and 
                        the Compact.
            (3) Review process.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the 
                date on which Tribal water leasing regulations under 
                paragraph (1) are submitted to the Secretary, the 
                Secretary shall review and approve or disapprove the 
                regulations.
                    (B) Written documentation.--If the Secretary 
                disapproves the Tribal water leasing regulations 
                described in subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall 
                include written documentation with the disapproval 
                notification that describes the basis for this 
                disapproval.
                    (C) Extension.--The deadline described in 
                subparagraph (A) may be extended by the Secretary, 
                after consultation with the Fort Belknap Indian 
                Community.
            (4) Federal environmental review.--Notwithstanding 
        paragraphs (2) and (3), if the Fort Belknap Indian Community 
        carries out a project or activity funded by a Federal agency, 
        the Fort Belknap Indian Community--
                    (A) shall have the authority to rely on the 
                environmental review process of the applicable Federal 
                agency; and
                    (B) shall not be required to carry out a tribal 
                environmental review process under this subsection.
            (5) Documentation.--If the Fort Belknap Indian Community 
        issues a lease pursuant to Tribal water leasing regulations 
        under paragraph (1), the Fort Belknap Indian Community shall 
        provide the Secretary and the State a copy of the lease, 
        including any amendments or renewals to the lease.
            (6) Limitation of liability.--
                    (A) In general.--The United States shall not be 
                liable in any claim relating to the negotiation, 
                execution, or approval of any lease or exchange 
                agreement or storage agreement, including any claims 
                relating to the terms included in such an agreement, 
                made pursuant to Tribal water leasing regulations under 
                paragraph (1).
                    (B) Obligations.--The United States shall have no 
                trust obligation or other obligation to monitor, 
                administer, or account for--
                            (i) any funds received by the Fort Belknap 
                        Indian Community as consideration under any 
                        lease or exchange agreement or storage 
                        agreement; or
                            (ii) the expenditure of those funds.
    (g) Tribal Water Code.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding Article IV.A.2. of the 
        Compact, not later than 4 years after the date on which the 
        Fort Belknap Indian Community approves the Compact in 
        accordance with section 11011(f)(1), the Fort Belknap Indian 
        Community shall enact a Tribal water code that provides for--
                    (A) the administration, management, regulation, and 
                governance of all uses of the Tribal water rights in 
                accordance with the Compact and this division; and
                    (B) the establishment by the Fort Belknap Indian 
                Community of the conditions, permit requirements, and 
                other requirements for the allocation, distribution, or 
                use of the Tribal water rights in accordance with the 
                Compact and this division.
            (2) Inclusions.--Subject to the approval of the Secretary, 
        the Tribal water code shall provide--
                    (A) that use of water by allottees shall be 
                satisfied with water from the Tribal water rights;
                    (B) a process by which an allottee may request that 
                the Fort Belknap Indian Community provide water for 
                irrigation use in accordance with this division, 
                including the provision of water under any allottee 
                lease under section 4 of the Act of June 25, 1910 (36 
                Stat. 856, chapter 431; 25 U.S.C. 403);
                    (C) a due process system for the consideration and 
                determination by the Fort Belknap Indian Community of 
                any request of an allottee (or a successor in interest 
                to an allottee) for an allocation of water for 
                irrigation purposes on allotted land, including a 
                process for--
                            (i) appeal and adjudication of any denied 
                        or disputed distribution of water; and
                            (ii) resolution of any contested 
                        administrative decision;
                    (D) a requirement that any allottee asserting a 
                claim relating to the enforcement of rights of the 
                allottee under the Tribal water code, including to the 
                quantity of water allocated to land of the allottee, 
                shall exhaust all remedies available to the allottee 
                under Tribal law before initiating an action against 
                the United States or petitioning the Secretary pursuant 
                to subsection (d)(4)(B);
                    (E) a process by which an owner of fee land within 
                the boundaries of the Reservation may apply for use of 
                a portion of the Tribal water rights; and
                    (F) a process for the establishment of a controlled 
                Groundwater area and for the management of that area in 
                cooperation with establishment of a contiguous 
                controlled Groundwater area off the Reservation 
                established pursuant to Section B.2. of Article IV of 
                the Compact and State law.
            (3) Action by secretary.--
                    (A) In general.--During the period beginning on the 
                date of enactment of this Act and ending on the date on 
                which a Tribal water code described in paragraphs (1) 
                and (2) is enacted, the Secretary shall administer, 
                with respect to the rights of allottees, the Tribal 
                water rights in accordance with the Compact and this 
                division.
                    (B) Approval.--The Tribal water code described in 
                paragraphs (1) and (2) shall not be valid unless--
                            (i) the provisions of the Tribal water code 
                        required by paragraph (2) are approved by the 
                        Secretary; and
                            (ii) each amendment to the Tribal water 
                        code that affects a right of an allottee is 
                        approved by the Secretary.
                    (C) Approval period.--
                            (i) In general.--The Secretary shall 
                        approve or disapprove the Tribal water code or 
                        an amendment to the Tribal water code by not 
                        later than 180 days after the date on which the 
                        Tribal water code or amendment to the Tribal 
                        water code is submitted to the Secretary.
                            (ii) Extensions.--The deadline described in 
                        clause (i) may be extended by the Secretary, 
                        after consultation with the Fort Belknap Indian 
                        Community.
    (h) Administration.--
            (1) No alienation.--The Fort Belknap Indian Community shall 
        not permanently alienate any portion of the Tribal water 
        rights.
            (2) Purchases or grants of land from indians.--An 
        authorization provided by this division for the allocation, 
        distribution, leasing, or other arrangement entered into 
        pursuant to this division shall be considered to satisfy any 
        requirement for authorization of the action required by Federal 
        law.
            (3) Prohibition on forfeiture.--The non-use of all or any 
        portion of the Tribal water rights by any water user shall not 
        result in the forfeiture, abandonment, relinquishment, or other 
        loss of all or any portion of the Tribal water rights.
    (i) Effect.--Except as otherwise expressly provided in this 
section, nothing in this division--
            (1) authorizes any action by an allottee against any 
        individual or entity, or against the Fort Belknap Indian 
        Community, under Federal, State, Tribal, or local law; or
            (2) alters or affects the status of any action brought 
        pursuant to section 1491(a) of title 28, United States Code.
    (j) Pick-Sloan Missouri River Basin Program Power Rates.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, the Secretary, in cooperation with the Secretary of 
        Energy, shall make available the Pick-Sloan Missouri River 
        Basin Program irrigation project pumping power rates to the 
        Fort Belknap Indian Community, the Fort Belknap Indian 
        Irrigation Project, and any projects funded under this 
        division.
            (2) Authorized purposes.--The power rates made available 
        under paragraph (1) shall be authorized for the purposes of 
        wheeling, administration, and payment of irrigation project 
        pumping power rates, including project use power for gravity 
        power.

SEC. 11006. EXCHANGE AND TRANSFER OF LAND.

    (a) Exchange of Eligible Land and State Land.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Eligible land.--The term ``eligible land'' 
                means--
                            (i) public lands (as defined in section 103 
                        of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act 
                        of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702)) that are administered 
                        by the Secretary, acting through the Director 
                        of the Bureau of Land Management; and
                            (ii) land in the National Forest System (as 
                        defined in section 11(a) of the Forest and 
                        Rangeland Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 
                        U.S.C. 1609(a)) that is administered by the 
                        Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the 
                        Chief of the Forest Service.
                    (B) Secretary concerned.--The term ``Secretary 
                concerned'' means, as applicable--
                            (i) the Secretary, with respect to the 
                        eligible land administered by the Bureau of 
                        Land Management; and
                            (ii) the Secretary of Agriculture, with 
                        respect to eligible land managed by the Forest 
                        Service.
            (2) Negotiations authorized.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary concerned shall 
                offer to enter into negotiations with the State for the 
                purpose of exchanging eligible land described in 
                paragraph (4) for the State land described in paragraph 
                (3).
                    (B) Requirements.--Any exchange of land made 
                pursuant to this subsection shall be subject to the 
                terms and conditions of this subsection.
                    (C) Priority.--
                            (i) In general.--In carrying out this 
                        paragraph, the Secretary and the Secretary of 
                        Agriculture shall, during the 5-year period 
                        beginning on the date of enactment of this Act, 
                        give priority to an exchange of eligible land 
                        located within the State for State land.
                            (ii) Secretary of agriculture.--The 
                        responsibility of the Secretary of Agriculture 
                        under clause (i), during the 5-year period 
                        described in that clause, shall be limited to 
                        negotiating with the State an acceptable 
                        package of land in the National Forest System 
                        (as defined in section 11(a) of the Forest and 
                        Rangeland Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 
                        U.S.C. 1609(a))).
            (3) State land.--The Secretary is authorized to accept the 
        following parcels of State land located on and off the 
        Reservation:
                    (A) 717.56 acres in T. 26 N., R. 22 E., sec. 16.
                    (B) 707.04 acres in T. 27 N., R. 22 E., sec. 16.
                    (C) 640 acres in T. 27 N., R. 21 E., sec. 36.
                    (D) 640 acres in T. 26 N., R. 23 E., sec. 16.
                    (E) 640 acres in T. 26 N., R. 23 E., sec. 36.
                    (F) 640 acres in T. 26 N., R. 26 E., sec. 16.
                    (G) 640 acres in T. 26 N., R. 22 E., sec. 36.
                    (H) 640 acres in T. 27 N., R. 23 E., sec. 16.
                    (I) 640 acres in T. 27 N., R. 25 E., sec. 36.
                    (J) 640 acres in T. 28 N., R. 22 E., sec. 36.
                    (K) 640 acres in T. 28 N., R. 23 E., sec. 16.
                    (L) 640 acres in T. 28 N., R. 24 E., sec. 36.
                    (M) 640 acres in T. 28 N., R. 25 E., sec. 16.
                    (N) 640 acres in T. 28 N., R. 25 E., sec. 36.
                    (O) 640 acres in T. 28 N., R. 26 E., sec. 16.
                    (P) 94.96 acres in T. 28 N., R. 26 E., sec. 36, 
                under lease by the Fort Belknap Indian Community 
                Council on the date of enactment of this Act, comprised 
                of--
                            (i) 30.68 acres in lot 5;
                            (ii) 26.06 acres in lot 6;
                            (iii) 21.42 acres in lot 7; and
                            (iv) 16.8 acres in lot 8.
                    (Q) 652.32 acres in T. 29 N., R. 22 E., sec. 16, 
                excluding the 73.36 acres under lease by individuals 
                who are not members of the Fort Belknap Indian 
                Community, on the date of enactment of this Act.
                    (R) 640 acres in T. 29 N., R. 22 E., sec. 36.
                    (S) 640 acres in T. 29 N., R. 23 E., sec. 16.
                    (T) 640 acres in T. 29 N., R. 24 E., sec. 16.
                    (U) 640 acres in T. 29 N., R. 24 E., sec. 36.
                    (V) 640 acres in T. 29 N., R. 25 E., sec. 16.
                    (W) 640 acres in T. 29 N., R. 25 E., sec. 36.
                    (X) 640 acres in T. 29 N., R. 26 E., sec. 16.
                    (Y) 663.22 acres in T. 30 N., R. 22 E., sec. 16, 
                excluding the 58.72 acres under lease by individuals 
                who are not members of the Fort Belknap Indian 
                Community on the date of enactment of this Act.
                    (Z) 640 acres in T. 30 N., R. 22 E., sec. 36.
                    (AA) 640 acres in T. 30 N., R. 23 E., sec. 16.
                    (BB) 640 acres in T. 30 N., R. 23 E., sec. 36.
                    (CC) 640 acres in T. 30 N., R. 24 E., sec. 16.
                    (DD) 640 acres in T. 30 N., R. 24 E., sec. 36.
                    (EE) 640 acres in T. 30 N., R. 25 E., sec. 16.
                    (FF) 275.88 acres in T. 30 N., R. 26 E., sec. 36, 
                under lease by the Fort Belknap Indian Community 
                Council on the date of enactment of this Act.
                    (GG) 640 acres in T. 31 N., R. 22 E., sec. 36.
                    (HH) 640 acres in T. 31 N., R. 23 E., sec. 16.
                    (II) 640 acres in T. 31 N., R. 23 E., sec. 36.
                    (JJ) 34.04 acres in T. 31 N., R. 26 E., sec. 16, 
                lot 4.
                    (KK) 640 acres in T. 25 N., R. 22 E., sec. 16.
            (4) Eligible land.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights, 
                the reservation of easements or rights-of-way deemed 
                necessary to be retained by the Secretary concerned, 
                and the requirements of this subsection, the Secretary 
                is authorized and directed to convey to the State any 
                eligible land within the State identified in the 
                negotiations authorized by paragraph (2) and agreed to 
                by the Secretary concerned.
                    (B) Exceptions.--The Secretary concerned shall 
                exclude from any conveyance any parcel of eligible land 
                that is--
                            (i) included within the National Landscape 
                        Conservation System established by section 
                        2002(a) of the Omnibus Public Land Management 
                        Act of 2009 (16 U.S.C. 7202(a)), without regard 
                        to whether that land has been identified as 
                        available for disposal in a land use plan;
                            (ii) designated as wilderness by Congress;
                            (iii) within a component of the National 
                        Wild and Scenic Rivers System; or
                            (iv) designated in the Forest Land and 
                        Resource Management Plan as a Research Natural 
                        Area.
                    (C) Administrative responsibility.--The Secretary 
                shall be responsible for meeting all substantive and 
                any procedural requirements necessary to complete the 
                exchange and the conveyance of the eligible land.
            (5) Land into trust.--On completion of the land exchange 
        authorized by this subsection, the Secretary shall, as soon as 
        practicable after the enforceability date, take the land 
        received by the United States pursuant to this subsection into 
        trust for the benefit of the Fort Belknap Indian Community.
            (6) Terms and conditions.--
                    (A) Equal value.--The values of the eligible land 
                and State land exchanged under this subsection shall be 
                equal, except that the Secretary concerned may--
                            (i) exchange land that is of approximately 
                        equal value if such an exchange complies with 
                        the requirements of section 206(h) of the 
                        Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 
                        (43 U.S.C. 1716(h)) (and any regulations 
                        implementing that section) without regard to 
                        the monetary limitation described in paragraph 
                        (1)(A) of that section; and
                            (ii) make or accept an equalization 
                        payment, or waive an equalization payment, if 
                        such a payment or waiver of a payment complies 
                        with the requirements of section 206(b) of that 
                        Act (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)) (and any regulations 
                        implementing that section).
                    (B) Impacts on local governments.--In identifying 
                eligible land to be exchanged with the State, the 
                Secretary concerned and the State may--
                            (i) consider the financial impacts of 
                        exchanging specific eligible land on local 
                        governments; and
                            (ii) attempt to minimize the financial 
                        impact of the exchange on local governments.
                    (C) Existing authorizations.--
                            (i) Eligible land conveyed to the state.--
                                    (I) In general.--Any eligible land 
                                conveyed to the State under this 
                                subsection shall be subject to any 
                                valid existing rights, contracts, 
                                leases, permits, and rights-of-way, 
                                unless the holder of the right, 
                                contract, lease, permit, or right-of-
                                way requests an earlier termination in 
                                accordance with existing law.
                                    (II) Assumption by state.--The 
                                State shall assume all benefits and 
                                obligations of the Forest Service or 
                                the Bureau of Land Management, as 
                                applicable, under the existing rights, 
                                contracts, leases, permits, and rights-
                                of-way described in subclause (I).
                            (ii) State land conveyed to the united 
                        states.--
                                    (I) In general.--Any State land 
                                conveyed to the United States under 
                                this subsection and taken into trust 
                                for the benefit of the Fort Belknap 
                                Indian Community subject shall be to 
                                any valid existing rights, contracts, 
                                leases, permits, and rights-of-way, 
                                unless the holder of the right, 
                                contract, lease, permit, or right-of-
                                way requests an earlier termination in 
                                accordance with existing law.
                                    (II) Assumption by bureau of indian 
                                affairs.--The Bureau of Indian Affairs 
                                shall--
                                            (aa) assume all benefits 
                                        and obligations of the State 
                                        under the existing rights, 
                                        contracts, leases, permits, and 
                                        rights-of-way described in 
                                        subclause (I); and
                                            (bb) disburse to the Fort 
                                        Belknap Indian Community any 
                                        amounts that accrue to the 
                                        United States from those 
                                        rights, contracts, leases, 
                                        permits, and rights-of-way, 
                                        after the date of transfer from 
                                        any sale, bonus, royalty, or 
                                        rental relating to that land in 
                                        the same manner as amounts 
                                        received from other land held 
                                        by the Secretary in trust for 
                                        the benefit of the Fort Belknap 
                                        Indian Community.
                    (D) Personal property.--
                            (i) In general.--Any improvements 
                        constituting personal property, as defined by 
                        State law, belonging to the holder of a right, 
                        contract, lease, permit, or right-of-way on 
                        land transferred to the United States under 
                        this subsection shall--
                                    (I) remain the property of the 
                                holder; and
                                    (II) be removed not later than 90 
                                days after the date on which the right, 
                                contract, lease, permit, or right-of-
                                way expires, unless the Fort Belknap 
                                Indian Community and the holder agree 
                                otherwise.
                            (ii) Remaining property.--Any personal 
                        property described in clause (i) remaining with 
                        the holder described in that clause beyond the 
                        90-day period described in subclause (II) of 
                        that clause shall--
                                    (I) become the property of the Fort 
                                Belknap Indian Community; and
                                    (II) be subject to removal and 
                                disposition at the discretion of the 
                                Fort Belknap Indian Community.
                            (iii) Liability of previous holder.--The 
                        holder of personal property described in clause 
                        (i) shall be liable for costs incurred by the 
                        Fort Belknap Indian Community in removing and 
                        disposing of the personal property under clause 
                        (ii)(II).
            (7) Technical corrections.--Notwithstanding the 
        descriptions of the parcels of land owned by the State under 
        paragraph (3), the State may, with the consent of the Fort 
        Belknap Indian Community, make technical corrections to the 
        legal land descriptions to more specifically identify the State 
        parcels to be exchanged.
            (8) Assistance.--The Secretary shall provide $10,000,000 of 
        financial or other assistance to the State and the Fort Belknap 
        Indian Community as may be necessary to obtain the appraisals, 
        and to satisfy administrative requirements, necessary to 
        accomplish the exchanges under paragraph (2).
    (b) Federal Land Transfers.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights and the 
        requirements of this subsection, all right, title, and interest 
        of the United States in and to the land described in paragraph 
        (2) shall be held by the United States in trust for the benefit 
        of the Fort Belknap Indian Community as part of the Reservation 
        on the enforceability date.
            (2) Federal land.--
                    (A) Bureau of land management parcels.--
                            (i) 59.46 acres in T. 25 N., R. 22 E., sec. 
                        4, comprised of--
                                    (I) 19.55 acres in lot 10;
                                    (II) 19.82 acres in lot 11; and
                                    (III) 20.09 acres in lot 16.
                            (ii) 324.24 acres in the N\1/2\ of T. 25 
                        N., R. 22 E., sec. 5.
                            (iii) 403.56 acres in T. 25 N., R. 22 E., 
                        sec. 9, comprised of--
                                    (I) 20.39 acres in lot 2;
                                    (II) 20.72 acres in lot 7;
                                    (III) 21.06 acres in lot 8;
                                    (IV) 40.00 acres in lot 9;
                                    (V) 40.00 acres in lot 10;
                                    (VI) 40.00 acres in lot 11;
                                    (VII) 40.00 acres in lot 12;
                                    (VIII) 21.39 acres in lot 13; and
                                    (IX) 160 acres in SW\1/4\.
                            (iv) 70.63 acres in T. 25 N., R. 22 E., 
                        sec. 13, comprised of--
                                    (I) 18.06 acres in lot 5;
                                    (II) 18.25 acres in lot 6;
                                    (III) 18.44 acres in lot 7; and
                                    (IV) 15.88 acres in lot 8.
                            (v) 71.12 acres in T. 25 N., R. 22 E., sec. 
                        14, comprised of--
                                    (I) 17.65 acres in lot 5;
                                    (II) 17.73 acres in lot 6;
                                    (III) 17.83 acres in lot 7; and
                                    (IV) 17.91 acres in lot 8.
                            (vi) 103.29 acres in T. 25 N., R. 22 E., 
                        sec. 15, comprised of--
                                    (I) 21.56 acres in lot 6;
                                    (II) 29.50 acres in lot 7;
                                    (III) 17.28 acres in lot 8;
                                    (IV) 17.41 acres in lot 9; and
                                    (V) 17.54 acres in lot 10.
                            (vii) 160 acres in T. 26 N., R. 21 E., sec. 
                        1, comprised of--
                                    (I) 80 acres in the S\1/2\ of the 
                                NW\1/4\; and
                                    (II) 80 acres in the W\1/2\ of the 
                                SW\1/4\.
                            (viii) 567.50 acres in T. 26 N., R. 21 E., 
                        sec. 2, comprised of--
                                    (I) 82.54 acres in the E\1/2\ of 
                                the NW\1/4\;
                                    (II) 164.96 acres in the NE\1/4\; 
                                and
                                    (III) 320 acres in the S\1/2\.
                            (ix) 240 acres in T. 26 N., R. 21 E., sec. 
                        3, comprised of--
                                    (I) 40 acres in the SE\1/4\ of the 
                                NW\1/4\;
                                    (II) 160 acres in the SW\1/4\; and
                                    (III) 40 acres in the SW\1/4\ of 
                                the SE\1/4\.
                            (x) 120 acres in T. 26 N., R. 21 E., sec. 
                        4, comprised of--
                                    (I) 80 acres in the E\1/2\ of the 
                                SE\1/4\; and
                                    (II) 40 acres in the NW\1/4\ of the 
                                SE\1/4\.
                            (xi) 200 acres in T. 26 N., R. 21 E., sec. 
                        5, comprised of--
                                    (I) 160 acres in the SW\1/4\; and
                                    (II) 40 acres in the SW\1/4\ of the 
                                NW\1/4\.
                            (xii) 40 acres in the SE\1/4\ of the SE\1/
                        4\ of T. 26 N., R. 21 E., sec. 6.
                            (xiii) 240 acres in T. 26 N., R. 21 E., 
                        sec. 8, comprised of--
                                    (I) 40 acres in the NE\1/4\ of the 
                                SW\1/4\;
                                    (II) 160 acres in the NW\1/4\; and
                                    (III) 40 acres in the NW\1/4\ of 
                                the SE\1/4\.
                            (xiv) 320 acres in the E\1/2\ of T. 26 N., 
                        R. 21 E., sec. 9.
                            (xv) 640 acres in T. 26 N., R. 21 E., sec. 
                        10.
                            (xvi) 600 acres in T. 26 N., R. 21 E., sec. 
                        11, comprised of--
                                    (I) 320 acres in the N\1/2\;
                                    (II) 80 acres in the N\1/2\ of the 
                                SE\1/4\;
                                    (III) 160 acres in the SW\1/4\; and
                                    (IV) 40 acres in the SW\1/4\ of the 
                                SE\1/4\.
                            (xvii) 525.81 acres in T. 26 N., R. 22 E., 
                        sec. 21, comprised of--
                                    (I) 6.62 acres in lot 1;
                                    (II) 5.70 acres in lot 2;
                                    (III) 56.61 acres in lot 5;
                                    (IV) 56.88 acres in lot 6;
                                    (V) 320 acres in the W\1/2\; and
                                    (VI) 80 acres in the W\1/2\ of the 
                                SE\1/4\.
                            (xviii) 719.58 acres in T. 26 N., R. 22 E., 
                        sec. 28.
                            (xix) 560 acres in T. 26 N., R. 22 E., sec. 
                        29, comprised of--
                                    (I) 320 acres in the N\1/2\;
                                    (II) 160 acres in the N\1/2\ of the 
                                S\1/2\; and
                                    (III) 80 acres in the S\1/2\ of the 
                                SE\1/4\.
                            (xx) 400 acres in T. 26 N., R. 22 E., sec. 
                        32, comprised of--
                                    (I) 320 acres in the S\1/2\; and
                                    (II) 80 acres in the S\1/2\ of the 
                                NW\1/4\.
                            (xxi) 455.51 acres in T. 26 N., R. 22 E., 
                        sec. 33, comprised of--
                                    (I) 58.25 acres in lot 3;
                                    (II) 58.5 acres in lot 4;
                                    (III) 58.76 acres in lot 5;
                                    (IV) 40 acres in the NW\1/4\ of the 
                                NE\1/4\;
                                    (V) 160 acres in the SW\1/4\; and
                                    (VI) 80 acres in the W\1/2\ of the 
                                SE\1/4\.
                            (xxii) 88.71 acres in T. 27 N., R. 21 E., 
                        sec. 1, comprised of--
                                    (I) 24.36 acres in lot 1;
                                    (II) 24.35 acres in lot 2; and
                                    (III) 40 acres in the SW\1/4\ of 
                                the SW\1/4\.
                            (xxiii) 80 acres in T. 27 N., R. 21 E., 
                        sec. 3, comprised of--
                                    (I) 40 acres in lot 11; and
                                    (II) 40 acres in lot 12.
                            (xxiv) 80 acres in T. 27 N., R. 21 E., sec. 
                        11, comprised of--
                                    (I) 40 acres in the NW\1/4\ of the 
                                SW\1/4\; and
                                    (II) 40 acres in the SW\1/4\ of the 
                                NW\1/4\.
                            (xxv) 200 acres in T. 27 N., R. 21 E., sec. 
                        12, comprised of--
                                    (I) 80 acres in the E\1/2\ of the 
                                SW\1/4\;
                                    (II) 40 acres in the NW\1/4\ of the 
                                NW\1/4\; and
                                    (III) 80 acres in the S\1/2\ of the 
                                NW\1/4\.
                            (xxvi) 40 acres in the SE\1/4\ of the NE\1/
                        4\ of T. 27 N., R. 21 E., sec. 23.
                            (xxvii) 320 acres in T. 27 N., R. 21 E., 
                        sec. 24, comprised of--
                                    (I) 80 acres in the E\1/2\ of the 
                                NW\1/4\;
                                    (II) 160 acres in the NE\1/4\;
                                    (III) 40 acres in the NE\1/4\ of 
                                the SE\1/4\; and
                                    (IV) 40 acres in the SW\1/4\ of the 
                                SW\1/4\.
                            (xxviii) 120 acres in T. 27 N., R. 21 E., 
                        sec. 25, comprised of--
                                    (I) 80 acres in the S\1/2\ of the 
                                NE\1/4\; and
                                    (II) 40 acres in the SE\1/4\ of the 
                                NW\1/4\.
                            (xxix) 40 acres in the NE\1/4\ of the SE\1/
                        4\ of T. 27 N., R. 21 E., sec. 26.
                            (xxx) 160 acres in the NW\1/4\ of T. 27 N., 
                        R. 21 E., sec. 27.
                            (xxxi) 40 acres in the SW\1/4\ of the SW\1/
                        4\ of T. 27 N., R. 21 E., sec. 29.
                            (xxxii) 40 acres in the SW\1/4\ of the 
                        NE\1/4\ of T. 27 N., R. 21 E., sec 30.
                            (xxxiii) 120 acres in T. 27 N., R. 21 E., 
                        sec. 33, comprised of--
                                    (I) 40 acres in the SE\1/4\ of the 
                                NE\1/4\; and
                                    (II) 80 acres in the N\1/2\ of the 
                                SE\1/4\.
                            (xxxiv) 440 acres in T. 27 N., R. 21 E., 
                        sec. 34, comprised of--
                                    (I) 160 acres in the N\1/2\ of the 
                                S\1/2\;
                                    (II) 160 acres in the NE\1/4\;
                                    (III) 80 acres in the S\1/2\ of the 
                                NW\1/4\; and
                                    (IV) 40 acres in the SE\1/4\ of the 
                                SE\1/4\.
                            (xxxv) 133.44 acres in T. 27 N., R. 22 E., 
                        sec. 4, comprised of--
                                    (I) 28.09 acres in lot 5;
                                    (II) 25.35 acres in lot 6;
                                    (III) 40 acres in lot 10; and
                                    (IV) 40 acres in lot 15.
                            (xxxvi) 160 acres in T. 27 N., R. 22 E., 
                        sec. 7, comprised of--
                                    (I) 40 acres in the NE\1/4\ of the 
                                NE\1/4\;
                                    (II) 40 acres in the NW\1/4\ of the 
                                SW\1/4\; and
                                    (III) 80 acres in the W\1/2\ of the 
                                NW\1/4\.
                            (xxxvii) 120 acres in T. 27 N., R. 22 E., 
                        sec. 8, comprised of--
                                    (I) 80 acres in the E\1/2\ of the 
                                NW\1/4\; and
                                    (II) 40 acres in the NE\1/4\ of the 
                                SW\1/4\.
                            (xxxviii) 40 acres in the SW\1/4\ of the 
                        NW\1/4\ of T. 27 N., R. 22 E., sec. 9.
                            (xxxix) 40 acres in the NE\1/4\ of the 
                        SW\1/4\ of T. 27 N., R. 22 E., sec. 17.
                            (xl) 40 acres in the NW\1/4\ of the NW\1/4\ 
                        of T. 27 N., R. 22 E., sec. 19.
                            (xli) 40 acres in the SE\1/4\ of the NW\1/
                        4\ of T. 27 N., R22 E., sec. 20.
                            (xlii) 80 acres in the W\1/2\ of the SE\1/
                        4\ of T. 27 N., R. 22 E., sec. 31.
                            (xliii) 52.36 acres in the SE\1/4\ of the 
                        SE\1/4\ of T. 27 N., R. 22 E., sec. 33.
                            (xliv) 40 acres in the NE\1/4\ of the SW\1/
                        4\ of T. 28 N., R. 22 E., sec. 29.
                            (xlv) 40 acres in the NE\1/4\ of the NE\1/
                        4\ of T. 26 N., R. 21 E., sec. 7.
                            (xlvi) 40 acres in the SW\1/4\ of the NW\1/
                        4\ of T. 26 N., R. 21 E., sec. 12.
                            (xlvii) 42.38 acres in the NW\1/4\ of the 
                        NE\1/4\ of T. 26 N., R. 22 E., sec. 6.
                            (xlviii) 320 acres in the E\1/2\ of T. 26 
                        N., R. 22 E., sec. 17.
                            (xlix) 80 acres in the E\1/2\ of the NE\1/
                        4\ of T. 26 N., R. 22 E., sec. 20.
                            (l) 240 acres in T. 26 N., R. 22 E., sec. 
                        30, comprised of--
                                    (I) 80 acres in the E\1/2\ of the 
                                NE\1/4\;
                                    (II) 80 acres in the N\1/2\ of the 
                                SE\1/4\;
                                    (III) 40 acres in the SE\1/4\ of 
                                the NW\1/4\; and
                                    (IV) 40 acres in the SW\1/4\ of the 
                                NE\1/4\.
                    (B) Bureau of indian affairs.--The parcels of 
                approximately 3,519.3 acres of trust land that have 
                been converted to fee land, judicially foreclosed on, 
                acquired by the Department of Agriculture, and 
                transferred to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, described 
                in clauses (i) through (iii).
                            (i) Parcel 1.--The land described in this 
                        clause is 640 acres in T. 29 N., R. 26 E., 
                        comprised of--
                                    (I) 160 acres in the SW\1/4\ of 
                                sec. 27;
                                    (II) 160 acres in the NE\1/4\ of 
                                sec. 33; and
                                    (III) 320 acres in the W\1/2\ of 
                                sec. 34.
                            (ii) Parcel 2.--The land described in this 
                        clause is 320 acres in the N\1/2\ of T. 30 N., 
                        R. 23 E., sec. 28.
                            (iii) Parcel 3.--The land described in this 
                        clause is 2,559.3 acres, comprised of--
                                    (I) T. 28 N., R. 24 E., including--
                                            (aa) of sec. 16--

                                                    (AA) 5 acres in the 
                                                E\1/2\, W\1/2\, E\1/2\, 
                                                W\1/2\, W\1/2\, NE\1/
                                                4\;

                                                    (BB) 10 acres in 
                                                the E\1/2\, E\1/2\, 
                                                W\1/2\, W\1/2\, NE\1/
                                                4\;

                                                    (CC) 40 acres in 
                                                the E\1/2\, W\1/2\, 
                                                NE\1/4\;

                                                    (DD) 40 acres in 
                                                the W\1/2\, E\1/2\, 
                                                NE\1/4\;

                                                    (EE) 20 acres in 
                                                the W\1/2\, E\1/2\, 
                                                E\1/2\, NE\1/4\;

                                                    (FF) 5 acres in the 
                                                W\1/2\, W\1/2\, E\1/2\, 
                                                E\1/2\, E\1/2\, NE\1/
                                                4\; and

                                                    (GG) 160 acres in 
                                                the SE\1/4\;

                                            (bb) 640 acres in sec. 21;
                                            (cc) 320 acres in the S\1/
                                        2\ of sec. 22; and
                                            (dd) 320 acres in the W\1/
                                        2\ of sec. 27;
                                    (II) T. 29 N., R. 25 E., PMM, 
                                including--
                                            (aa) 320 acres in the S\1/
                                        2\ of sec. 1; and
                                            (bb) 320 acres in the N\1/
                                        2\ of sec. 12;
                                    (III) 39.9 acres in T. 29 N., R. 26 
                                E., PMM, sec. 6, lot 2;
                                    (IV) T. 30 N., R. 26 E., PMM, 
                                including--
                                            (aa) 39.4 acres in sec. 3, 
                                        lot 2;
                                            (bb) 40 acres in the SW\1/
                                        4\ of the SW\1/4\ of sec. 4;
                                            (cc) 80 acres in the E\1/2\ 
                                        of the SE\1/4\ of sec. 5;
                                            (dd) 80 acres in the S\1/2\ 
                                        of the SE\1/4\ of sec. 7; and
                                            (ee) 40 acres in the N\1/
                                        2\, N\1/2\, NE\1/4\ of sec. 18; 
                                        and
                                    (V) 40 acres in T. 31 N., R. 26 E., 
                                PMM, the NW\1/4\ of the SE\1/4\ of sec. 
                                31.
            (3) Terms and conditions.--
                    (A) Existing authorizations.--
                            (i) In general.--Federal land transferred 
                        under this subsection shall be conveyed and 
                        taken into trust subject to valid existing 
                        rights, contracts, leases, permits, and rights-
                        of-way, unless the holder of the right, 
                        contract, lease, permit, and rights-of-way 
                        requests an earlier termination in accordance 
                        with existing law.
                            (ii) Assumption by bureau of indian 
                        affairs.--The Bureau of Indian Affairs shall--
                                    (I) assume all benefits and 
                                obligations of the previous land 
                                management agency under the existing 
                                rights, contracts, leases, permits, and 
                                rights-of-way described in clause (i); 
                                and
                                    (II) disburse to the Fort Belknap 
                                Indian Community any amounts that 
                                accrue to the United States from those 
                                rights, contracts, leases, permits, and 
                                rights-of-ways after the date of 
                                transfer from any sale, bonus, royalty, 
                                or rental relating to that land in the 
                                same manner as amounts received from 
                                other land held by the Secretary in 
                                trust for the Fort Belknap Indian 
                                Community.
                    (B) Personal property.--
                            (i) In general.--Any improvements 
                        constituting personal property, as defined by 
                        State law, belonging to the holder of a right, 
                        contract, lease, permit, or right-of-way on 
                        land transferred under this subsection shall--
                                    (I) remain the property of the 
                                holder; and
                                    (II) be removed from the land not 
                                later than 90 days after the date on 
                                which the right, contract, lease, 
                                permit, or right-of-way expires, unless 
                                the Fort Belknap Indian Community and 
                                the holder agree otherwise.
                            (ii) Remaining property.--Any personal 
                        property described in clause (i) remaining with 
                        the holder described in that clause beyond the 
                        90-day period described in subclause (II) of 
                        that clause shall--
                                    (I) become the property of the Fort 
                                Belknap Indian Community; and
                                    (II) be subject to removal and 
                                disposition at the discretion of the 
                                Fort Belknap Indian Community.
                            (iii) Liability of previous holder.--The 
                        holder of personal property described in clause 
                        (i) shall be liable to the Fort Belknap Indian 
                        Community for costs incurred by the Fort 
                        Belknap Indian Community in removing and 
                        disposing of the property under clause 
                        (ii)(II).
                    (C) Existing roads.--If any road within the Federal 
                land transferred under this subsection is necessary for 
                customary access to private land, the Bureau of Indian 
                Affairs shall offer the owner of the private land to 
                apply for a right-of-way along the existing road, at 
                the expense of the landowner.
                    (D) Limitation on the transfer of water rights.--
                Water rights that transfer with the land described in 
                paragraph (2) shall not become part of the Tribal water 
                rights, unless those rights are recognized and ratified 
                in the Compact.
            (4) Withdrawal of federal land.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights, 
                effective on the date of enactment of this Act, all 
                Federal land within the parcels described in paragraph 
                (2) is withdrawn from all forms of--
                            (i) entry, appropriation, or disposal under 
                        the public land laws;
                            (ii) location, entry, and patent under the 
                        mining laws; and
                            (iii) disposition under all laws pertaining 
                        to mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral 
                        materials.
                    (B) Expiration.--The withdrawals pursuant to 
                subparagraph (A) shall terminate on the date that the 
                Secretary takes the land into trust for the benefit of 
                the Fort Belknap Indian Community pursuant to paragraph 
                (1).
                    (C) No new reservation of federal water rights.--
                Nothing in this paragraph establishes a new reservation 
                in favor of the United States or the Fort Belknap 
                Indian Community with respect to any water or water 
                right on the land withdrawn by this paragraph.
            (5) Technical corrections.--Notwithstanding the 
        descriptions of the parcels of Federal land in paragraph (2), 
        the United States may, with the consent of the Fort Belknap 
        Indian Community, make technical corrections to the legal land 
        descriptions to more specifically identify the parcels.
            (6) Survey.--
                    (A) In general.--Unless the United States or the 
                Fort Belknap Indian Community request an additional 
                survey for the transferred land or a technical 
                correction is made under paragraph (5), the description 
                of land under this subsection shall be controlling.
                    (B) Additional survey.--If the United States or the 
                Fort Belknap Indian Community requests an additional 
                survey, that survey shall control the total acreage to 
                be transferred into trust under this subsection.
                    (C) Assistance.--The Secretary shall provide such 
                financial or other assistance as may be necessary--
                            (i) to conduct additional surveys under 
                        this subsection; and
                            (ii) to satisfy administrative requirements 
                        necessary to accomplish the land transfers 
                        under this subsection.
            (7) Date of transfer.--The Secretary shall complete all 
        land transfers under this subsection and shall take the land 
        into trust for the benefit of the Fort Belknap Indian Community 
        as expeditiously as practicable after the enforceability date, 
        but not later than 10 years after the enforceability date.
    (c) Tribally Owned Fee Land.--Not later than 10 years after the 
enforceability date, the Secretary shall take into trust for the 
benefit of the Fort Belknap Indian Community all fee land owned by the 
Fort Belknap Indian Community on or adjacent to the Reservation to 
become part of the Reservation, provided that--
            (1) the land is free from any liens, encumbrances, or other 
        infirmities; and
            (2) no evidence exists of any hazardous substances on, or 
        other environmental liability with respect to, the land.
    (d) Dodson Land.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), as soon as 
        practicable after the enforceability date, but not later than 
        10 years after the enforceability date, the Dodson Land 
        described in paragraph (3) shall be taken into trust by the 
        United States for the benefit of the Fort Belknap Indian 
        Community as part of the Reservation.
            (2) Restrictions.--The land taken into trust under 
        paragraph (1) shall be subject to a perpetual easement, 
        reserved by the United States for use by the Bureau of 
        Reclamation, its contractors, and its assigns for--
                    (A) the right of ingress and egress for Milk River 
                Project purposes;
                    (B) the right to--
                            (i) seep, flood, and overflow the 
                        transferred land for Milk River Project 
                        purposes;
                            (ii) conduct routine and non-routine 
                        operation, maintenance, and replacement 
                        activities on the Milk River Project 
                        facilities, including modification to the 
                        headworks at the upstream end of the Dodson 
                        South Canal in support of Dodson South Canal 
                        enlargement, to include all associated access, 
                        construction, and material storage necessary to 
                        complete those activities; and
                            (iii) prohibit the construction of 
                        permanent structures on the transferred land, 
                        except--
                                    (I) as provided in the cooperative 
                                agreement under paragraph (4); and
                                    (II) to meet the requirements of 
                                the Milk River Project.
            (3) Description of dodson land.--
                    (A) In general.--The Dodson Land referred to in 
                paragraphs (1) and (2) is the approximately 2,500 acres 
                of land owned by the United States that is, as of the 
                date of enactment of this Act, under the jurisdiction 
                of the Bureau of Reclamation and located at the 
                northeastern corner of the Reservation (which extends 
                to the point in the middle of the main channel of the 
                Milk River), where the Milk River Project facilities, 
                including the Dodson Diversion Dam, headworks to the 
                Dodson South Canal, and Dodson South Canal, are 
                located, and more particularly described as follows:
                            (i) Supplemental Plat of T. 30 N., R. 26 
                        E., PMM, secs. 1 and 2.
                            (ii) Supplemental Plat of T. 31 N., R. 25 
                        E., PMM, sec. 13.
                            (iii) Supplemental Plat of T. 31 N., R. 26 
                        E., PMM, secs. 18, 19, 20, and 29.
                            (iv) Supplemental Plat of T. 31 N., R. 26 
                        E., PMM, secs. 26, 27, 35, and 36.
                    (B) Clarification.--The supplemental plats 
                described in clauses (i) through (iv) of subparagraph 
                (A) are official plats, as documented by retracement 
                boundary surveys of the General Land Office, approved 
                on March 11, 1938, and on record at the Bureau of Land 
                Management.
                    (C) Technical corrections.--Notwithstanding the 
                descriptions of the parcels of Federal land in 
                subparagraph (A), the United States may, with the 
                consent of the Fort Belknap Indian Community, make 
                technical corrections to the legal land descriptions to 
                more specifically identify the parcels to be 
                transferred.
            (4) Cooperative agreement.--Not later than 3 years after 
        the enforceability date, the Bureau of Reclamation, the Malta 
        Irrigation District, the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and the Fort 
        Belknap Indian Community shall negotiate and enter into a 
        cooperative agreement that identifies the uses to which the 
        Fort Belknap Indian Community may put the land described in 
        paragraph (3), provided that the cooperative agreement may be 
        amended by mutual agreement of the Fort Belknap Indian 
        Community, Bureau of Reclamation, the Malta Irrigation 
        District, and the Bureau of Indian Affairs, including to modify 
        the perpetual easement to narrow the boundaries of the easement 
        or to terminate the perpetual easement and cooperative 
        agreement.
    (e) Land Status.--All land held in trust by the United States for 
the benefit of the Fort Belknap Indian Community under this section 
shall be--
            (1) beneficially owned by the Fort Belknap Indian 
        Community; and
            (2) part of the Reservation and administered in accordance 
        with the laws and regulations generally applicable to land held 
        in trust by the United States for the benefit of an Indian 
        Tribe.

SEC. 11007. STORAGE ALLOCATION FROM LAKE ELWELL.

    (a) Storage Allocation of Water to Fort Belknap Indian Community.--
The Secretary shall allocate to the Fort Belknap Indian Community 
20,000 acre-feet per year of water stored in Lake Elwell for use by the 
Fort Belknap Indian Community for any beneficial purpose on or off the 
Reservation, under a water right held by the United States and managed 
by the Bureau of Reclamation for the benefit of the Fort Belknap Indian 
Community, as measured and diverted at the outlet works of the Tiber 
Dam or through direct pumping from Lake Elwell.
    (b) Treatment.--
            (1) In general.--The allocation to the Fort Belknap Indian 
        Community under subsection (a) shall be considered to be part 
        of the Tribal water rights.
            (2) Priority date.--The priority date of the allocation to 
        the Fort Belknap Indian Community under subsection (a) shall be 
        the priority date of the Lake Elwell water right held by the 
        Bureau of Reclamation.
            (3) Administration.--The Fort Belknap Indian Community 
        shall administer the water allocated under subsection (a) in 
        accordance with the Compact and this division.
    (c) Allocation Agreement.--
            (1) In general.--As a condition of receiving the allocation 
        under this section, the Fort Belknap Indian Community shall 
        enter into an agreement with the Secretary to establish the 
        terms and conditions of the allocation, in accordance with the 
        Compact and this division.
            (2) Inclusions.--The agreement under paragraph (1) shall 
        include provisions establishing that--
                    (A) the agreement shall be without limit as to 
                term;
                    (B) the Fort Belknap Indian Community, and not the 
                United States, shall be entitled to all consideration 
                due to the Fort Belknap Indian Community under any 
                lease, contract, exchange, or agreement entered into by 
                the Fort Belknap Indian Community pursuant to 
                subsection (d);
                    (C) the United States shall have no obligation to 
                monitor, administer, or account for--
                            (i) any funds received by the Fort Belknap 
                        Indian Community as consideration under any 
                        lease, contract, exchange, or agreement entered 
                        into by the Fort Belknap Indian Community 
                        pursuant to subsection (d); or
                            (ii) the expenditure of those funds;
                    (D) if the capacity or function of Lake Elwell 
                facilities are significantly reduced, or are 
                anticipated to be significantly reduced, for an 
                extended period of time, the Fort Belknap Indian 
                Community shall have the same storage rights as other 
                storage contractors with respect to the allocation 
                under this section;
                    (E) the costs associated with the construction of 
                the storage facilities at Tiber Dam allocable to the 
                Fort Belknap Indian Community shall be nonreimbursable;
                    (F) no water service capital charge shall be due or 
                payable for any water allocated to the Fort Belknap 
                Indian Community under this section or the allocation 
                agreement, regardless of whether that water is 
                delivered for use by the Fort Belknap Indian Community 
                or under a lease, contract, exchange, or by agreement 
                entered into by the Fort Belknap Indian Community 
                pursuant to subsection (d);
                    (G) the Fort Belknap Indian Community shall not be 
                required to make payments to the United States for any 
                water allocated to the Fort Belknap Indian Community 
                under this section or the allocation agreement, except 
                for each acre-foot of stored water leased or 
                transferred for industrial purposes as described in 
                subparagraph (H); and
                    (H) for each acre-foot of stored water leased or 
                transferred by the Fort Belknap Indian Community for 
                industrial purposes--
                            (i) the Fort Belknap Indian Community shall 
                        pay annually to the United States an amount 
                        necessary to cover the proportional share of 
                        the annual operations, maintenance, and 
                        replacement costs allocable to the quantity of 
                        water leased or transferred by the Fort Belknap 
                        Indian Community for industrial purposes; and
                            (ii) the annual payments of the Fort 
                        Belknap Indian Community shall be reviewed and 
                        adjusted, as appropriate, to reflect the actual 
                        operations, maintenance, and replacement costs 
                        for Tiber Dam.
    (d) Agreement by Fort Belknap Indian Community.--The Fort Belknap 
Indian Community may use, lease, contract, exchange, or enter into 
other agreements for the use of the water allocated to the Fort Belknap 
Indian Community under subsection (a) if--
            (1) the use of water that is the subject of such an 
        agreement occurs within the Missouri River Basin; and
            (2) the agreement does not permanently alienate any water 
        allocated to the Fort Belknap Indian Community under that 
        subsection.
    (e) Effective Date.--The allocation under subsection (a) takes 
effect on the enforceability date.
    (f) No Carryover Storage.--The allocation under subsection (a) 
shall not be increased by any year-to-year carryover storage.
    (g) Development and Delivery Costs.--The United States shall not be 
required to pay the cost of developing or delivering any water 
allocated under this section.

SEC. 11008. MILK RIVER PROJECT MITIGATION.

    (a) In General.--In complete satisfaction of the Milk River Project 
mitigation requirements provided for in Article VI.B. of the Compact, 
the Secretary, acting through the Commissioner--
            (1) in cooperation with the State and the Blackfeet Tribe, 
        shall carry out appropriate activities concerning the 
        restoration of the St. Mary Canal and associated facilities, 
        including activities relating to the--
                    (A) planning and design to restore the St. Mary 
                Canal and appurtenances to convey 850 cubic-feet per 
                second; and
                    (B) rehabilitating, constructing, and repairing of 
                the St. Mary Canal and appurtenances; and
            (2) in cooperation with the State and the Fort Belknap 
        Indian Community, shall carry out appropriate activities 
        concerning the enlargement of Dodson South Canal and associated 
        facilities, including activities relating to the--
                    (A) planning and design to enlarge Dodson South 
                Canal and headworks at the upstream end of Dodson South 
                Canal to divert and convey 700 cubic-feet per second; 
                and
                    (B) rehabilitating, constructing, and enlarging the 
                Dodson South Canal and headworks at the upstream end of 
                Dodson South Canal to divert and convey 700 cubic-feet 
                per second.
    (b) Funding.--The total amount of obligations incurred by the 
Secretary, prior to any adjustments provided for in section 11014(b), 
shall not exceed $300,000,000 to carry out activities described in 
subsection (c)(1).
    (c) Satisfaction of Mitigation Requirement.--Notwithstanding any 
provision of the Compact, the mitigation required by Article VI.B. of 
the Compact shall be deemed satisfied if--
            (1) the Secretary has--
                    (A) restored the St. Mary Canal and associated 
                facilities to convey 850 cubic-feet per second; and
                    (B) enlarged the Dodson South Canal and headworks 
                at the upstream end of Dodson South Canal to divert and 
                convey 700 cubic-feet per second; or
            (2) the Secretary--
                    (A) has expended all of the available funding 
                provided pursuant to section 11014(a)(1)(D) to 
                rehabilitate the St. Mary Canal and enlarge the Dodson 
                South Canal; and
                    (B) despite diligent efforts, could not complete 
                the activities described in subsection (a).
    (d) Nonreimbursability of Costs.--The costs to the Secretary of 
carrying out this section shall be nonreimbursable.

SEC. 11009. FORT BELKNAP INDIAN IRRIGATION PROJECT SYSTEM.

    (a) In General.--Subject to the availability of appropriations, the 
Secretary shall rehabilitate, modernize, and expand the Fort Belknap 
Indian Irrigation Project, as generally described in the document of 
Natural Resources Consulting Engineers, Inc., entitled ``Fort Belknap 
Indian Community Comprehensive Water Development Plan'' and dated 
February 2019, which shall include--
            (1) planning, studies, and designing of the existing and 
        expanded Milk River unit, including the irrigation system, 
        Pumping Plant, delivery pipe and canal, Fort Belknap Dam and 
        Reservoir, and Peoples Creek Flood Protection Project;
            (2) the rehabilitation, modernization, and construction of 
        the existing Milk River unit; and
            (3) construction of the expanded Milk River unit, including 
        the irrigation system, Pumping Plant, delivery pipe and canal, 
        Fort Belknap Dam and Reservoir, and Peoples Creek Flood 
        Protection Project.
    (b) Lead Agency.--The Bureau of Indian Affairs, in coordination 
with the Bureau of Reclamation, shall serve as the lead agency with 
respect to any activities carried out under this section.
    (c) Consultation With the Fort Belknap Indian Community.--The 
Secretary shall consult with the Fort Belknap Indian Community on 
appropriate changes to the final design and costs of any activity under 
this section.
    (d) Funding.--The total amount of obligations incurred by the 
Secretary in carrying out this section, prior to any adjustment 
provided for in section 11014(b), shall not exceed $415,832,153.
    (e) Nonreimbursability of Costs.--All costs incurred by the 
Secretary in carrying out this section shall be nonreimbursable.
    (f) Administration.--The Secretary and the Fort Belknap Indian 
Community shall negotiate the cost of any oversight activity carried 
out by the Bureau of Indian Affairs or the Bureau of Reclamation under 
any agreement entered into under subsection (j), subject to the 
condition that the total cost for the oversight shall not exceed 3 
percent of the total project costs for each project.
    (g) Project Management Committee.--Not later than 1 year after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall facilitate the 
formation of a project management committee composed of representatives 
of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the Bureau of Reclamation, and the 
Fort Belknap Indian Community--
            (1) to review and make recommendations relating to cost 
        factors, budgets, and implementing the activities for 
        rehabilitating, modernizing, and expanding the Fort Belknap 
        Indian Irrigation Project; and
            (2) to improve management of inherently governmental 
        activities through enhanced communication.
    (h) Project Efficiencies.--If the total cost of planning, studies, 
design, rehabilitation, modernization, and construction activities 
relating to the projects described in subsection (a) results in cost 
savings and is less than the amounts authorized to be obligated, the 
Secretary, at the request of the Fort Belknap Indian Community, shall 
deposit those savings in the Fort Belknap Indian Community Water 
Resources and Water Rights Administration, Operation, and Maintenance 
Account established under section 11012(b)(2).
    (i) Treatment.--Any activities carried out pursuant to this section 
that result in improvements, additions, or modifications to the Fort 
Belknap Indian Irrigation Project shall--
            (1) become a part of the Fort Belknap Indian Irrigation 
        Project; and
            (2) be recorded in the inventory of the Secretary relating 
        to the Fort Belknap Indian Irrigation Project.
    (j) Applicability of ISDEAA.--At the request of the Fort Belknap 
Indian Community, and in accordance with the Indian Self-Determination 
and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), the Secretary 
shall enter into agreements with the Fort Belknap Indian Community to 
carry out all or a portion of this section.
    (k) Effect.--Nothing in this section--
            (1) alters any applicable law under which the Bureau of 
        Indian Affairs collects assessments or carries out the 
        operations and maintenance of the Fort Belknap Indian 
        Irrigation Project; or
            (2) impacts the availability of amounts under section 
        11014.
    (l) Satisfaction of Fort Belknap Indian Irrigation Project System 
Requirement.--The obligations of the Secretary under subsection (a) 
shall be deemed satisfied if the Secretary--
            (1) has rehabilitated, modernized, and expanded the Fort 
        Belknap Indian Irrigation Project in accordance with subsection 
        (a); or
            (2)(A) has expended all of the available funding provided 
        pursuant to paragraphs (1)(C) and (2)(A)(iv) of section 
        11014(a); and
            (B) despite diligent efforts, could not complete the 
        activities described in subsection (a).

SEC. 11010. SATISFACTION OF CLAIMS.

    (a) In General.--The benefits provided under this division shall be 
in complete replacement of, complete substitution for, and full 
satisfaction of any claim of the Fort Belknap Indian Community against 
the United States that is waived and released by the Fort Belknap 
Indian Community under section 11011(a).
    (b) Allottees.--The benefits realized by the allottees under this 
division shall be in complete replacement of, complete substitution 
for, and full satisfaction of--
            (1) all claims waived and released by the United States 
        (acting as trustee for the allottees) under section 
        11011(a)(2); and
            (2) any claims of the allottees against the United States 
        similar to the claims described in section 11011(a)(2) that the 
        allottee asserted or could have asserted.

SEC. 11011. WAIVERS AND RELEASES OF CLAIMS.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Waiver and release of claims by the fort belknap indian 
        community and united states as trustee for the fort belknap 
        indian community.--Subject to the reservation of rights and 
        retention of claims under subsection (d), as consideration for 
        recognition of the Tribal water rights and other benefits 
        described in the Compact and this division, the Fort Belknap 
        Indian Community, acting on behalf of the Fort Belknap Indian 
        Community and members of the Fort Belknap Indian Community (but 
        not any member of the Fort Belknap Indian Community as an 
        allottee), and the United States, acting as trustee for the 
        Fort Belknap Indian Community and the members of the Fort 
        Belknap Indian Community (but not any member of the Fort 
        Belknap Indian Community as an allottee), shall execute a 
        waiver and release of all claims for water rights within the 
        State that the Fort Belknap Indian Community, or the United 
        States acting as trustee for the Fort Belknap Indian Community, 
        asserted or could have asserted in any proceeding, including a 
        State stream adjudication, on or before the enforceability 
        date, except to the extent that such rights are recognized in 
        the Compact and this division.
            (2) Waiver and release of claims by the united states as 
        trustee for allottees.--Subject to the reservation of rights 
        and the retention of claims under subsection (d), as 
        consideration for recognition of the Tribal water rights and 
        other benefits described in the Compact and this division, the 
        United States, acting as trustee for the allottees, shall 
        execute a waiver and release of all claims for water rights 
        within the Reservation that the United States, acting as 
        trustee for the allottees, asserted or could have asserted in 
        any proceeding, including a State stream adjudication, on or 
        before the enforceability date, except to the extent that such 
        rights are recognized in the Compact and this division.
            (3) Waiver and release of claims by the fort belknap indian 
        community against the united states.--Subject to the 
        reservation of rights and retention of claims under subsection 
        (d), the Fort Belknap Indian Community, acting on behalf of the 
        Fort Belknap Indian Community and members of the Fort Belknap 
        Indian Community (but not any member of the Fort Belknap Indian 
        Community as an allottee), shall execute a waiver and release 
        of all claims against the United States (including any agency 
        or employee of the United States)--
                    (A) first arising before the enforceability date 
                relating to--
                            (i) water rights within the State that the 
                        United States, acting as trustee for the Fort 
                        Belknap Indian Community, asserted or could 
                        have asserted in any proceeding, including a 
                        general stream adjudication in the State, 
                        except to the extent that such rights are 
                        recognized as Tribal water rights under this 
                        division;
                            (ii) foregone benefits from nontribal use 
                        of water, on and off the Reservation (including 
                        water from all sources and for all uses);
                            (iii) damage, loss, or injury to water, 
                        water rights, land, or natural resources due to 
                        loss of water or water rights, including 
                        damages, losses, or injuries to hunting, 
                        fishing, gathering, or cultural rights due to 
                        loss of water or water rights, claims relating 
                        to interference with, diversion of, or taking 
                        of water, or claims relating to a failure to 
                        protect, acquire, replace, or develop water, 
                        water rights, or water infrastructure) within 
                        the State;
                            (iv) a failure to establish or provide a 
                        municipal rural or industrial water delivery 
                        system on the Reservation;
                            (v) damage, loss, or injury to water, water 
                        rights, land, or natural resources due to 
                        construction, operation, and management of the 
                        Fort Belknap Indian Irrigation Project and 
                        other Federal land and facilities (including 
                        damages, losses, or injuries to Tribal 
                        fisheries, fish habitat, wildlife, and wildlife 
                        habitat);
                            (vi) a failure to provide for operation and 
                        maintenance, or deferred maintenance, for the 
                        Fort Belknap Indian Irrigation Project or any 
                        other irrigation system or irrigation project;
                            (vii) the litigation of claims relating to 
                        any water rights of the Fort Belknap Indian 
                        Community in the State;
                            (viii) the negotiation, execution, or 
                        adoption of the Compact (including appendices) 
                        and this division;
                            (ix) the taking or acquisition of land or 
                        resources of the Fort Belknap Indian Community 
                        for the construction or operation of the Fort 
                        Belknap Indian Irrigation Project or the Milk 
                        River Project; and
                            (x) the allocation of water of the Milk 
                        River and the St. Mary River (including 
                        tributaries) between the United States and 
                        Canada pursuant to the International Boundary 
                        Waters Treaty of 1909 (36 Stat. 2448); and
                    (B) relating to damage, loss, or injury to water, 
                water rights, land, or natural resources due to mining 
                activities in the Little Rockies Mountains prior to the 
                date of trust acquisition, including damages, losses, 
                or injuries to hunting, fishing, gathering, or cultural 
                rights.
    (b) Effectiveness.--The waivers and releases under subsection (a) 
shall take effect on the enforceability date.
    (c) Objections in Montana Water Court.--Nothing in this division or 
the Compact prohibits the Fort Belknap Indian Community, a member of 
the Fort Belknap Indian Community, an allottee, or the United States in 
any capacity from objecting to any claim to a water right filed in any 
general stream adjudication in the Montana Water Court.
    (d) Reservation of Rights and Retention of Claims.--Notwithstanding 
the waivers and releases under subsection (a), the Fort Belknap Indian 
Community, acting on behalf of the Fort Belknap Indian Community and 
members of the Fort Belknap Indian Community, and the United States, 
acting as trustee for the Fort Belknap Indian Community and the 
allottees shall retain--
            (1) all claims relating to--
                    (A) the enforcement of water rights recognized 
                under the Compact, any final court decree relating to 
                those water rights, or this division or to water rights 
                accruing on or after the enforceability date;
                    (B) the quality of water under--
                            (i) CERCLA, including damages to natural 
                        resources;
                            (ii) the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 
                        300f et seq.);
                            (iii) the Federal Water Pollution Control 
                        Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.); and
                            (iv) any regulations implementing the Acts 
                        described in clauses (i) through (iii);
                    (C) damage, loss, or injury to land or natural 
                resources that are--
                            (i) not due to loss of water or water 
                        rights (including hunting, fishing, gathering, 
                        or cultural rights); and
                            (ii) not described in subsection (a)(3); 
                        and
                    (D) an action to prevent any person or party (as 
                defined in sections 29 and 30 of Article II of the 
                Compact) from interfering with the enjoyment of the 
                Tribal water rights;
            (2) all claims relating to off-Reservation hunting rights, 
        fishing rights, gathering rights, or other rights;
            (3) all claims relating to the right to use and protect 
        water rights acquired after the date of enactment of this Act;
            (4) all claims relating to the allocation of waters of the 
        Milk River and the Milk River Project between the Fort Belknap 
        Indian Community and the Blackfeet Tribe, pursuant to section 
        3705(e)(3) of the Blackfeet Water Rights Settlement Act (Public 
        Law 114-322; 130 Stat. 1818);
            (5) all claims relating to the enforcement of this 
        division, including the required transfer of land under section 
        11006; and
            (6) all rights, remedies, privileges, immunities, and 
        powers not specifically waived and released pursuant to this 
        division or the Compact.
    (e) Effect of Compact and Division.--Nothing in the Compact or this 
division--
            (1) affects the authority of the Fort Belknap Indian 
        Community to enforce the laws of the Fort Belknap Indian 
        Community, including with respect to environmental protections;
            (2) affects the ability of the United States, acting as 
        sovereign, to carry out any activity authorized by law, 
        including--
                    (A) the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 
                U.S.C. 1251 et seq.);
                    (B) the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f et 
                seq.);
                    (C) CERCLA; and
                    (D) any regulations implementing the Acts described 
                in subparagraphs (A) through (C);
            (3) affects the ability of the United States to act as 
        trustee for any other Indian Tribe or an allottee of any other 
        Indian Tribe;
            (4) confers jurisdiction on any State court--
                    (A) to interpret Federal law relating to health, 
                safety, or the environment;
                    (B) to determine the duties of the United States or 
                any other party under Federal law relating to health, 
                safety, or the environment; or
                    (C) to conduct judicial review of any Federal 
                agency action;
            (5) waives any claim of a member of the Fort Belknap Indian 
        Community in an individual capacity that does not derive from a 
        right of the Fort Belknap Indian Community;
            (6) revives any claim adjudicated in the decision in Gros 
        Ventre Tribe v. United States, 469 F.3d 801 (9th Cir. 2006); or
            (7) revives any claim released by an allottee or member of 
        the Fort Belknap Indian Community in the settlement in Cobell 
        v. Salazar, No. 1:96CV01285-JR (D.D.C. 2012).
    (f) Enforceability Date.--The enforceability date shall be the date 
on which the Secretary publishes in the Federal Register a statement of 
findings that--
            (1) the eligible members of the Fort Belknap Indian 
        Community have voted to approve this division and the Compact 
        by a majority of votes cast on the day of the vote;
            (2)(A) the Montana Water Court has approved the Compact in 
        a manner from which no further appeal may be taken; or
            (B) if the Montana Water Court is found to lack 
        jurisdiction, the appropriate district court of the United 
        States has approved the Compact as a consent decree from which 
        no further appeal may be taken;
            (3) all of the amounts authorized to be appropriated under 
        section 11014 have been appropriated and deposited in the 
        designated accounts;
            (4) the Secretary and the Fort Belknap Indian Community 
        have executed the allocation agreement described in section 
        11007(c)(1);
            (5) the State has provided the required funding into the 
        Fort Belknap Indian Community Tribal Irrigation and Other Water 
        Resources Development Account of the Trust Fund pursuant to 
        section 11014(a)(3); and
            (6) the waivers and releases under subsection (a) have been 
        executed by the Fort Belknap Indian Community and the 
        Secretary.
    (g) Tolling of Claims.--
            (1) In general.--Each applicable period of limitation and 
        time-based equitable defense relating to a claim described in 
        this section shall be tolled for the period beginning on the 
        date of enactment of this Act and ending on the enforceability 
        date.
            (2) Effect of subsection.--Nothing in this subsection 
        revives any claim or tolls any period of limitations or time-
        based equitable defense that expired before the date of 
        enactment of this Act.
    (h) Expiration.--
            (1) In general.--This division shall expire in any case in 
        which--
                    (A) the amounts authorized to be appropriated by 
                this division have not been made available to the 
                Secretary by not later than--
                            (i) January 21, 2034; and
                            (ii) such alternative later date as is 
                        agreed to by the Fort Belknap Indian Community 
                        and the Secretary; or
                    (B) the Secretary fails to publish a statement of 
                findings under subsection (f) by not later than--
                            (i) January 21, 2035; and
                            (ii) such alternative later date as is 
                        agreed to by the Fort Belknap Indian Community 
                        and the Secretary, after providing reasonable 
                        notice to the State.
            (2) Consequences.--If this division expires under paragraph 
        (1)--
                    (A) the waivers and releases under subsection (a) 
                shall--
                            (i) expire; and
                            (ii) have no further force or effect;
                    (B) the authorization, ratification, confirmation, 
                and execution of the Compact under section 11004 shall 
                no longer be effective;
                    (C) any action carried out by the Secretary, and 
                any contract or agreement entered into, pursuant to 
                this division shall be void;
                    (D) any unexpended Federal funds appropriated or 
                made available to carry out the activities authorized 
                by this division, together with any interest earned on 
                those funds, and any water rights or contracts to use 
                water and title to other property acquired or 
                constructed with Federal funds appropriated or made 
                available to carry out the activities authorized by 
                this division shall be returned to the Federal 
                Government, unless otherwise agreed to by the Fort 
                Belknap Indian Community and the United States and 
                approved by Congress; and
                    (E) except for Federal funds used to acquire or 
                construct property that is returned to the Federal 
                Government under subparagraph (D), the United States 
                shall be entitled to offset any Federal funds made 
                available to carry out this division that were expended 
                or withdrawn, or any funds made available to carry out 
                this division from other Federal authorized sources, 
                together with any interest accrued on those funds, 
                against any claims against the United States--
                            (i) relating to--
                                    (I) water rights in the State 
                                asserted by--
                                            (aa) the Fort Belknap 
                                        Indian Community; or
                                            (bb) any user of the Tribal 
                                        water rights; or
                                    (II) any other matter described in 
                                subsection (a)(3); or
                            (ii) in any future settlement of water 
                        rights of the Fort Belknap Indian Community or 
                        an allottee.

SEC. 11012. AANIIIH NAKODA SETTLEMENT TRUST FUND.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a trust fund for 
the Fort Belknap Indian Community, to be known as the ``Aaniiih Nakoda 
Settlement Trust Fund'', to be managed, invested, and distributed by 
the Secretary and to remain available until expended, withdrawn, or 
reverted to the general fund of the Treasury, consisting of the amounts 
deposited in the Trust Fund under subsection (c), together with any 
investment earnings, including interest, earned on those amounts, for 
the purpose of carrying out this division.
    (b) Accounts.--The Secretary shall establish in the Trust Fund the 
following accounts:
            (1) The Fort Belknap Indian Community Tribal Irrigation and 
        Other Water Resources Development Account.
            (2) The Fort Belknap Indian Community Water Resources and 
        Water Rights Administration, Operation, and Maintenance 
        Account.
            (3) The Fort Belknap Indian Community Clean and Safe 
        Domestic Water and Sewer Systems, and Lake Elwell Project 
        Account.
    (c) Deposits.--The Secretary shall deposit--
            (1) in the Fort Belknap Indian Community Tribal Irrigation 
        and Other Water Resources Development Account established under 
        subsection (b)(1), the amounts made available pursuant to 
        paragraphs (1)(A) and (2)(A)(i) of section 11014(a);
            (2) in the Fort Belknap Indian Community Water Resources 
        and Water Rights Administration, Operation, and Maintenance 
        Account established under subsection (b)(2), the amounts made 
        available pursuant to section 11014(a)(2)(A)(ii); and
            (3) in the Fort Belknap Indian Community Clean and Safe 
        Domestic Water and Sewer Systems, and Lake Elwell Project 
        Account established under subsection (b)(3), the amounts made 
        available pursuant to paragraphs (1)(B) and (2)(A)(iii) of 
        section 11014(a).
    (d) Management and Interest.--
            (1) Management.--On receipt and deposit of the funds into 
        the accounts in the Trust Fund pursuant to subsection (c), the 
        Secretary shall manage, invest, and distribute all amounts in 
        the Trust Fund in accordance with the investment authority of 
        the Secretary under--
                    (A) the first section of the Act of June 24, 1938 
                (25 U.S.C. 162a);
                    (B) the American Indian Trust Fund Management 
                Reform Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.); and
                    (C) this section.
            (2) Investment earnings.--In addition to the amounts 
        deposited under subsection (c), any investment earnings, 
        including interest, credited to amounts held in the Trust Fund 
        shall be available for use in accordance with subsections (e) 
        and (g).
    (e) Availability of Amounts.--
            (1) In general.--Amounts appropriated to, and deposited in, 
        the Trust Fund, including any investment earnings, including 
        interest, earned on those amounts shall be made available--
                    (A) to the Fort Belknap Indian Community by the 
                Secretary beginning on the enforceability date; and
                    (B) subject to the uses and restrictions in this 
                section.
            (2) Exceptions.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1)--
                    (A) amounts deposited in the Fort Belknap Indian 
                Community Tribal Irrigation and Other Water Resources 
                Development Account established under subsection (b)(1) 
                shall be available to the Fort Belknap Indian Community 
                on the date on which the amounts are deposited for uses 
                described in subparagraph (A) and (B) of subsection 
                (g)(1);
                    (B) amounts deposited in the Fort Belknap Indian 
                Community Water Resources and Water Rights 
                Administration, Operation, and Maintenance Account 
                established under subsection (b)(2) shall be made 
                available to the Fort Belknap Indian Community on the 
                date on which the amounts are deposited and the Fort 
                Belknap Indian Community has satisfied the requirements 
                of section 11011(f)(1), for the uses described in 
                subsection (g)(2)(A); and
                    (C) amounts deposited in the Fort Belknap Indian 
                Community Clean and Safe Domestic Water and Sewer 
                Systems, and Lake Elwell Project Account established 
                under subsection (b)(3) shall be available to the Fort 
                Belknap Indian Community on the date on which the 
                amounts are deposited for the uses described in 
                subsection (g)(3)(A).
    (f) Withdrawals.--
            (1) American indian trust fund management reform act of 
        1994.--
                    (A) In general.--The Fort Belknap Indian Community 
                may withdraw any portion of the funds in the Trust Fund 
                on approval by the Secretary of a Tribal management 
                plan submitted by the Fort Belknap Indian Community in 
                accordance with the American Indian Trust Fund 
                Management Reform Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.).
                    (B) Requirements.--In addition to the requirements 
                under the American Indian Trust Fund Management Reform 
                Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.), the Tribal 
                management plan under this paragraph shall require that 
                the Fort Belknap Indian Community spend all amounts 
                withdrawn from the Trust Fund, and any investment 
                earnings accrued through the investments under the 
                Tribal management plan, in accordance with this 
                division.
                    (C) Enforcement.--The Secretary may carry out such 
                judicial and administrative actions as the Secretary 
                determines to be necessary--
                            (i) to enforce the Tribal management plan; 
                        and
                            (ii) to ensure that amounts withdrawn from 
                        the Trust Fund by the Fort Belknap Indian 
                        Community under this paragraph are used in 
                        accordance with this division.
            (2) Withdrawals under expenditure plan.--
                    (A) In general.--The Fort Belknap Indian Community 
                may submit to the Secretary a request to withdraw funds 
                from the Trust Fund pursuant to an approved expenditure 
                plan.
                    (B) Requirements.--To be eligible to withdraw funds 
                under an expenditure plan under this paragraph, the 
                Fort Belknap Indian Community shall submit to the 
                Secretary for approval an expenditure plan for any 
                portion of the Trust Fund that the Fort Belknap Indian 
                Community elects to withdraw pursuant to this 
                paragraph, subject to the condition that the funds 
                shall be used for the purposes described in this 
                division.
                    (C) Inclusions.--An expenditure plan under this 
                paragraph shall include a description of the manner and 
                purpose for which the amounts proposed to be withdrawn 
                from the Trust Fund will be used by the Fort Belknap 
                Indian Community in accordance with subsections (e) and 
                (g).
                    (D) Approval.--On receipt of an expenditure plan 
                under this paragraph, the Secretary shall approve the 
                expenditure plan if the Secretary determines that the 
                expenditure plan--
                            (i) is reasonable; and
                            (ii) is consistent with, and will be used 
                        for, the purposes of this division.
                    (E) Enforcement.--The Secretary may carry out such 
                judicial and administrative actions as the Secretary 
                determines to be necessary to enforce an expenditure 
                plan under this paragraph to ensure that amounts 
                disbursed under this paragraph are used in accordance 
                with this division.
    (g) Uses.--Amounts from the Trust Fund shall be used by the Fort 
Belknap Indian Community for the following purposes:
            (1) Fort belknap indian community tribal irrigation and 
        other water resources development account.--Amounts in the Fort 
        Belknap Indian Community Tribal Irrigation and Other Water 
        Resources Development Account established under subsection 
        (b)(1) shall be used to pay the cost of activities relating 
        to--
                    (A) planning, studies, and design of the Southern 
                Tributary Irrigation Project and the Peoples Creek 
                Irrigation Project, including the Upper Peoples Creek 
                Dam and Reservoir, as generally described in the 
                document of Natural Resources Consulting Engineers, 
                Inc., entitled ``Fort Belknap Indian Community 
                Comprehensive Water Development Plan'' and dated 
                February 2019;
                    (B) environmental compliance;
                    (C) construction of the Southern Tributary 
                Irrigation Project and the Peoples Creek Irrigation 
                Project, including the Upper Peoples Creek Dam and 
                Reservoir;
                    (D) wetlands restoration and development;
                    (E) stock watering infrastructure; and
                    (F) on farm development support and reacquisition 
                of fee lands within the Fort Belknap Indian Irrigation 
                Project and Fort Belknap Indian Community irrigation 
                projects within the Reservation.
            (2) Fort belknap indian community water resources and water 
        rights administration, operation, and maintenance account.--
        Amounts in the Fort Belknap Indian Community Water Resources 
        and Water Rights Administration, Operation, and Maintenance 
        Account established under subsection (b)(2), the principal and 
        investment earnings, including interest, may only be used by 
        the Fort Belknap Indian Community to pay the costs of 
        activities described in subparagraphs (A) through (C) as 
        follows:
                    (A) $9,000,000 shall be used for the establishment, 
                operation, and capital expenditures in connection with 
                the administration of the Tribal water resources and 
                water rights development, including the development or 
                enactment of a Tribal water code.
                    (B) Only investment earnings, including interest, 
                on $29,299,059 shall be used and be available to pay 
                the costs of activities for administration, operations, 
                and regulation of the Tribal water resources and water 
                rights department, in accordance with the Compact and 
                this division.
                    (C) Only investment earnings, including interest, 
                on $28,331,693 shall be used and be available to pay 
                the costs of activities relating to a portion of the 
                annual assessment costs for the Fort Belknap Indian 
                Community and Tribal members, including allottees, 
                under the Fort Belknap Indian Irrigation Project and 
                Fort Belknap Indian Community irrigation projects 
                within the Reservation.
            (3) Fort belknap indian community clean and safe domestic 
        water and sewer systems, and lake elwell project account.--
        Amounts in the Fort Belknap Indian Community Clean and Safe 
        Domestic Water and Sewer Systems, and Lake Elwell Project 
        Account established under subsection (b)(3), the principal and 
        investment earnings, including interest, may only be used by 
        the Fort Belknap Indian Community to pay the costs of 
        activities relating to--
                    (A) planning, studies, design, and environmental 
                compliance of domestic water supply, and sewer 
                collection and treatment systems, as generally 
                described in the document of Natural Resources 
                Consulting Engineers, Inc., entitled ``Fort Belknap 
                Indian Community Comprehensive Water Development Plan'' 
                and dated February 2019, including the Lake Elwell 
                Project water delivery to the southern part of the 
                Reservation;
                    (B) construction of domestic water supply, sewer 
                collection, and treatment systems;
                    (C) construction, in accordance with applicable 
                law, of infrastructure for delivery of Lake Elwell 
                water diverted from the Missouri River to the southern 
                part of the Reservation; and
                    (D) planning, studies, design, environmental 
                compliance, and construction of a Tribal wellness 
                center for a work force health and wellbeing project.
    (h) Liability.--The Secretary shall not be liable for any 
expenditure or investment of amounts withdrawn from the Trust Fund by 
the Fort Belknap Indian Community pursuant to subsection (f).
    (i) Project Efficiencies.--If the total cost of the activities 
described in subsection (g) results in cost savings and is less than 
the amounts authorized to be obligated under any of paragraphs (1) 
through (3) of that subsection required to carry out those activities, 
the Secretary, at the request of the Fort Belknap Indian Community, 
shall deposit those savings in the Trust Fund to be used in accordance 
with that subsection.
    (j) Annual Report.--The Fort Belknap Indian Community shall submit 
to the Secretary an annual expenditure report describing 
accomplishments and amounts spent from use of withdrawals under a 
Tribal management plan or an expenditure plan described in this 
section.
    (k) No Per Capita Payments.--No principal or interest amount in any 
account established by this section shall be distributed to any member 
of the Fort Belknap Indian Community on a per capita basis.
    (l) Effect.--Nothing in this division entitles the Fort Belknap 
Indian Community to judicial review of a determination of the Secretary 
regarding whether to approve a Tribal management plan under subsection 
(f)(1) or an expenditure plan under subsection (f)(2), except as 
provided under subchapter II of chapter 5, and chapter 7, of title 5, 
United States Code (commonly known as the ``Administrative Procedure 
Act'').

SEC. 11013. FORT BELKNAP INDIAN COMMUNITY WATER SETTLEMENT 
              IMPLEMENTATION FUND.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the Treasury of the 
United States a non-trust, interest-bearing account to be known as the 
``Fort Belknap Indian Community Water Settlement Implementation Fund'', 
to be managed and distributed by the Secretary, for use by the 
Secretary for carrying out this division.
    (b) Accounts.--The Secretary shall establish in the Implementation 
Fund the following accounts:
            (1) The Fort Belknap Indian Irrigation Project System 
        Account.
            (2) The Milk River Project Mitigation Account.
    (c) Deposits.--The Secretary shall deposit--
            (1) in the Fort Belknap Indian Irrigation Project System 
        Account established under subsection (b)(1), the amount made 
        available pursuant to paragraphs (1)(C) and (2)(A)(iv) of 
        section 11014(a); and
            (2) in the Milk River Project Mitigation Account 
        established under subsection (b)(2), the amount made available 
        pursuant to section 11014(a)(1)(D).
    (d) Uses.--
            (1) Fort belknap indian irrigation project system 
        account.--The Fort Belknap Indian Irrigation Project 
        Rehabilitation Account established under subsection (b)(1) 
        shall be used to carry out section 11009, except as provided in 
        subsection (h) of that section.
            (2) Milk river project mitigation account.--The Milk River 
        Project Mitigation Account established under subsection (b)(2) 
        may only be used to carry out section 11008.
    (e) Management.--
            (1) In general.--Amounts in the Implementation Fund shall 
        not be available to the Secretary for expenditure until the 
        enforceability date.
            (2) Exception.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1), amounts 
        deposited in the Fort Belknap Indian Irrigation Project System 
        Account established under subsection (b)(1) shall be available 
        to the Secretary on the date on which the amounts are deposited 
        for uses described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 
        11009(a).
    (f) Interest.--In addition to the deposits under subsection (c), 
any interest credited to amounts unexpended in the Implementation Fund 
are authorized to be appropriated to be used in accordance with the 
uses described in subsection (d).

SEC. 11014. FUNDING.

    (a) Funding.--
            (1) Authorization of appropriations.--Subject to subsection 
        (b), there are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary--
                    (A) for deposit in the Fort Belknap Indian 
                Community Tribal Irrigation and Other Water Resources 
                Development Account of the Trust Fund established under 
                section 11012(b)(1), $89,643,100, to be retained until 
                expended, withdrawn, or reverted to the general fund of 
                the Treasury;
                    (B) for deposit in the Fort Belknap Indian 
                Community Clean and Safe Domestic Water and Sewer 
                Systems, and Lake Elwell Project Account of the Trust 
                Fund established under section 11012(b)(3), 
                $331,885,220, to be retained until expended, withdrawn, 
                or reverted to the general fund of the Treasury;
                    (C) for deposit in the Fort Belknap Indian 
                Irrigation Project System Account of the Implementation 
                Fund established under section 11013(b)(1), such sums 
                as are necessary, but not more than $187,124,469, for 
                the Secretary to carry out section 11009, to be 
                retained until expended, withdrawn, or reverted to the 
                general fund of the Treasury; and
                    (D) for deposit in the Milk River Project 
                Mitigation Account of the Implementation Fund 
                established under section 11013(b)(2), such sums as are 
                necessary, but not more than $300,000,000, for the 
                Secretary to carry out obligations of the Secretary 
                under section 11008, to be retained until expended, 
                withdrawn, or reverted to the general fund of the 
                Treasury.
            (2) Mandatory appropriations.--
                    (A) In general.--Out of any funds in the Treasury 
                not otherwise appropriated, the Secretary of the 
                Treasury shall deposit--
                            (i) in the Fort Belknap Indian Community 
                        Tribal Irrigation and Other Water Resources 
                        Development Account of the Trust Fund 
                        established under section 11012(b)(1), 
                        $29,881,034, to be retained until expended, 
                        withdrawn, or reverted to the general fund of 
                        the Treasury;
                            (ii) in the Fort Belknap Indian Community 
                        Water Resources and Water Rights 
                        Administration, Operation, and Maintenance 
                        Account of the Trust Fund established under 
                        section 11012(b)(2), $66,630,752;
                            (iii) in the Fort Belknap Indian Community 
                        Clean and Safe Domestic Water and Sewer 
                        Systems, and Lake Elwell Project Account of the 
                        Trust Fund established under section 
                        11012(b)(3), $110,628,407; and
                            (iv) in the Fort Belknap Indian Irrigation 
                        Project System Account of the Implementation 
                        Fund established under section 11013(b)(1), 
                        $228,707,684.
                    (B) Availability.--Amounts deposited in the 
                accounts under subparagraph (A) shall be available 
                without further appropriation.
            (3) State cost share.--The State shall contribute 
        $5,000,000, plus any earned interest, payable to the Secretary 
        for deposit in the Fort Belknap Indian Community Tribal 
        Irrigation and Other Water Resources Development Account of the 
        Trust Fund established under section 11012(b)(1) on approval of 
        a final decree by the Montana Water Court for the purpose of 
        activities relating to the Upper Peoples Creek Dam and 
        Reservoir under subparagraphs (A) through (C) of section 
        11012(g)(1).
    (b) Fluctuation in Costs.--
            (1) In general.--The amounts authorized to be appropriated 
        under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) and this 
        subsection shall be--
                    (A) increased or decreased, as appropriate, by such 
                amounts as may be justified by reason of ordinary 
                fluctuations in costs occurring after the date of 
                enactment of this Act as indicated by the Bureau of 
                Reclamation Construction Cost Index--Composite Trend; 
                and
                    (B) adjusted to address construction cost changes 
                necessary to account for unforeseen market volatility 
                that may not otherwise be captured by engineering cost 
                indices as determined by the Secretary, including 
                repricing applicable to the types of construction and 
                current industry standards involved.
            (2) Repetition.--The adjustment process under paragraph (1) 
        shall be repeated for each subsequent amount appropriated until 
        the amount authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a), 
        as adjusted, has been appropriated.
            (3) Period of indexing.--
                    (A) Trust fund.--With respect to the Trust Fund, 
                the period of indexing adjustment under paragraph (1) 
                for any increment of funding shall end on the date on 
                which the funds are deposited into the Trust Fund.
                    (B) Implementation fund.--With respect to the 
                Implementation Fund, the period of adjustment under 
                paragraph (1) for any increment of funding shall be 
                annually.

SEC. 11015. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

    (a) Waiver of Sovereign Immunity by the United States.--Except as 
provided in subsections (a) through (c) of section 208 of the 
Department of Justice Appropriation Act, 1953 (43 U.S.C. 666), nothing 
in this division waives the sovereign immunity of the United States.
    (b) Other Tribes Not Adversely Affected.--Nothing in this division 
quantifies or diminishes any land or water right, or any claim or 
entitlement to land or water, of an Indian Tribe, band, or community 
other than the Fort Belknap Indian Community.
    (c) Elimination of Debts or Liens Against Allotments of the Fort 
Belknap Indian Community Members Within the Fort Belknap Indian 
Irrigation Project.--On the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary shall cancel and eliminate all debts or liens against the 
allotments of land held by the Fort Belknap Indian Community and the 
members of the Fort Belknap Indian Community due to construction 
assessments and annual operation and maintenance charges relating to 
the Fort Belknap Indian Irrigation Project.
    (d) Effect on Current Law.--Nothing in this division affects any 
provision of law (including regulations) in effect on the day before 
the date of enactment of this Act with respect to pre-enforcement 
review of any Federal environmental enforcement action.
    (e) Effect on Reclamation Laws.--The activities carried out by the 
Commissioner under this division shall not establish a precedent or 
impact the authority provided under any other provision of the 
reclamation laws, including--
            (1) the Reclamation Rural Water Supply Act of 2006 (43 
        U.S.C. 2401 et seq.); and
            (2) the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009 (Public 
        Law 111-11; 123 Stat. 991).
    (f) Additional Funding.--Nothing in this division prohibits the 
Fort Belknap Indian Community from seeking--
            (1) additional funds for Tribal programs or purposes; or
            (2) funding from the United States or the State based on 
        the status of the Fort Belknap Indian Community as an Indian 
        Tribe.
    (g) Rights Under State Law.--Except as provided in section 1 of 
Article III of the Compact (relating to the closing of certain water 
basins in the State to new appropriations in accordance with the laws 
of the State), nothing in this division or the Compact precludes the 
acquisition or exercise of a right arising under State law (as defined 
in section 6 of Article II of the Compact) to the use of water by the 
Fort Belknap Indian Community, or a member or allottee of the Fort 
Belknap Indian Community, outside the Reservation by--
            (1) purchase of the right; or
            (2) submitting to the State an application in accordance 
        with State law.
    (h) Water Storage and Importation.--Nothing in this division or the 
Compact prevents the Fort Belknap Indian Community from participating 
in any project to import water to, or to add storage in, the Milk River 
Basin.

SEC. 11016. ANTIDEFICIENCY.

    The United States shall not be liable for any failure to carry out 
any obligation or activity authorized by this division, including any 
obligation or activity under the Compact, if--
            (1) adequate appropriations are not provided by Congress 
        expressly to carry out the purposes of this division; or
            (2) there are not enough funds available in the Reclamation 
        Water Settlements Fund established by section 10501(a) of the 
        Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009 (43 U.S.C. 407(a)) 
        to carry out the purposes of this division.

  DIVISION L--COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS

           TITLE LXIX--FEDERAL DATA AND INFORMATION SECURITY

        Subtitle A--Federal Data Center Enhancement Act of 2023

SEC. 11001. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Federal Data Center Enhancement 
Act of 2023''.

SEC. 11002. FEDERAL DATA CENTER CONSOLIDATION INITIATIVE AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) The statutory authorization for the Federal Data Center 
        Optimization Initiative under section 834 of the Carl Levin and 
        Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2015 (44 U.S.C. 3601 note; Public Law 113-291) 
        expired at the end of fiscal year 2022.
            (2) The expiration of the authorization described in 
        paragraph (1) presents Congress with an opportunity to review 
        the objectives of the Federal Data Center Optimization 
        Initiative to ensure that the initiative is meeting the current 
        needs of the Federal Government.
            (3) The initial focus of the Federal Data Center 
        Optimization Initiative, which was to consolidate data centers 
        and create new efficiencies, has resulted in, since 2010--
                    (A) the consolidation of more than 6,000 Federal 
                data centers; and
                    (B) cost savings and avoidance of $5,800,000,000.
            (4) The need of the Federal Government for access to data 
        and data processing systems has evolved since the date of 
        enactment in 2014 of subtitle D of title VIII of the Carl Levin 
        and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 2015.
            (5) Federal agencies and employees involved in mission 
        critical functions increasingly need reliable access to secure, 
        reliable, and protected facilities to house mission critical 
        data and data operations to meet the immediate needs of the 
        people of the United States.
            (6) As of the date of enactment of this subtitle, there is 
        a growing need for Federal agencies to use data centers and 
        cloud applications that meet high standards for cybersecurity, 
        resiliency, and availability.
    (b) Minimum Requirements for New Data Centers.--Section 834 of the 
Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (44 U.S.C. 3601 note; Public Law 113-291) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking paragraphs (3) and (4) 
        and inserting the following:
            ``(3) New data center.--The term `new data center' means--
                    ``(A)(i) a data center or a portion thereof that is 
                owned, operated, or maintained by a covered agency; or
                    ``(ii) to the extent practicable, a data center or 
                portion thereof--
                            ``(I) that is owned, operated, or 
                        maintained by a contractor on behalf of a 
                        covered agency on the date on which the 
                        contract between the covered agency and the 
                        contractor expires; and
                            ``(II) with respect to which the covered 
                        agency extends the contract, or enters into a 
                        new contract, with the contractor; and
                    ``(B) on or after the date that is 180 days after 
                the date of enactment of the Federal Data Center 
                Enhancement Act of 2023, a data center or portion 
                thereof that is--
                            ``(i) established; or
                            ``(ii) substantially upgraded or 
                        expanded.'';
            (2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Minimum Requirements for New Data Centers.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of enactment of the Federal Data Center Enhancement Act of 
        2023, the Administrator shall establish minimum requirements 
        for new data centers in consultation with the Administrator of 
        General Services and the Federal Chief Information Officers 
        Council.
            ``(2) Contents.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The minimum requirements 
                established under paragraph (1) shall include 
                requirements relating to--
                            ``(i) the availability of new data centers;
                            ``(ii) the use of new data centers;
                            ``(iii) uptime percentage;
                            ``(iv) protections against power failures, 
                        including on-site energy generation and access 
                        to multiple transmission paths;
                            ``(v) protections against physical 
                        intrusions and natural disasters;
                            ``(vi) information security protections 
                        required by subchapter II of chapter 35 of 
                        title 44, United States Code, and other 
                        applicable law and policy; and
                            ``(vii) any other requirements the 
                        Administrator determines appropriate.
                    ``(B) Consultation.--In establishing the 
                requirements described in subparagraph (A)(vi), the 
                Administrator shall consult with the Director of the 
                Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency and 
                the National Cyber Director.
            ``(3) Incorporation of minimum requirements into current 
        data centers.--As soon as practicable, and in any case not 
        later than 90 days after the Administrator establishes the 
        minimum requirements pursuant to paragraph (1), the 
        Administrator shall issue guidance to ensure, as appropriate, 
        that covered agencies incorporate the minimum requirements 
        established under that paragraph into the operations of any 
        data center of a covered agency existing as of the date of 
        enactment of the Federal Data Center Enhancement Act of 2023.
            ``(4) Review of requirements.--The Administrator, in 
        consultation with the Administrator of General Services and the 
        Federal Chief Information Officers Council, shall review, 
        update, and modify the minimum requirements established under 
        paragraph (1), as necessary.
            ``(5) Report on new data centers.--During the development 
        and planning lifecycle of a new data center, if the head of a 
        covered agency determines that the covered agency is likely to 
        make a management or financial decision relating to any data 
        center, the head of the covered agency shall--
                    ``(A) notify--
                            ``(i) the Administrator;
                            ``(ii) Committee on Homeland Security and 
                        Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
                            ``(iii) Committee on Oversight and 
                        Accountability of the House of Representatives; 
                        and
                    ``(B) describe in the notification with sufficient 
                detail how the covered agency intends to comply with 
                the minimum requirements established under paragraph 
                (1).
            ``(6) Use of technology.--In determining whether to 
        establish or continue to operate an existing data center, the 
        head of a covered agency shall--
                    ``(A) regularly assess the application portfolio of 
                the covered agency and ensure that each at-risk legacy 
                application is updated, replaced, or modernized, as 
                appropriate, to take advantage of modern technologies; 
                and
                    ``(B) prioritize and, to the greatest extent 
                possible, leverage commercial cloud environments rather 
                than acquiring, overseeing, or managing custom data 
                center infrastructure.
            ``(7) Public website.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Administrator shall maintain 
                a public-facing website that includes information, 
                data, and explanatory statements relating to the 
                compliance of covered agencies with the requirements of 
                this section.
                    ``(B) Processes and procedures.--In maintaining the 
                website described in subparagraph (A), the 
                Administrator shall--
                            ``(i) ensure covered agencies regularly, 
                        and not less frequently than biannually, update 
                        the information, data, and explanatory 
                        statements posed on the website, pursuant to 
                        guidance issued by the Administrator, relating 
                        to any new data centers and, as appropriate, 
                        each existing data center of the covered 
                        agency; and
                            ``(ii) ensure that all information, data, 
                        and explanatory statements on the website are 
                        maintained as open Government data assets.''; 
                        and
            (3) in subsection (c), by striking paragraph (1) and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--The head of a covered agency shall 
        oversee and manage the data center portfolio and the 
        information technology strategy of the covered agency in 
        accordance with Federal cybersecurity guidelines and 
        directives, including--
                    ``(A) information security standards and guidelines 
                promulgated by the Director of the National Institute 
                of Standards and Technology;
                    ``(B) applicable requirements and guidance issued 
                by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget 
                pursuant to section 3614 of title 44, United States 
                Code; and
                    ``(C) directives issued by the Secretary of 
                Homeland Security under section 3553 of title 44, 
                United States Code.''.
    (c) Extension of Sunset.--Section 834(e) of the Carl Levin and 
Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2015 (44 U.S.C. 3601 note; Public Law 113-291) is amended by 
striking ``2022'' and inserting ``2026''.
    (d) GAO Review.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this subtitle, and annually thereafter, the Comptroller 
General of the United States shall review, verify, and audit the 
compliance of covered agencies with the minimum requirements 
established pursuant to section 834(b)(1) of the Carl Levin and Howard 
P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2015 (44 U.S.C. 3601 note; Public Law 113-291) for new data centers and 
subsection (b)(3) of that section for existing data centers, as 
appropriate.

           TITLE LXX--STEMMING THE FLOW OF ILLICIT NARCOTICS

              Subtitle A--Enhancing DHS Drug Seizures Act

SEC. 11101. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Enhancing DHS Drug Seizures 
Act''.

SEC. 11102. COORDINATION AND INFORMATION SHARING.

    (a) Public-private Partnerships.--
            (1) Strategy.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
        develop a strategy to strengthen existing and establish new 
        public-private partnerships with shipping, chemical, and 
        pharmaceutical industries to assist with early detection and 
        interdiction of illicit drugs and precursor chemicals.
            (2) Contents.--The strategy required under paragraph (1) 
        shall contain goals and objectives for employees of the 
        Department of Homeland Security to ensure the tactics, 
        techniques, and procedures gained from the public-private 
        partnerships described in paragraph (1) are included in 
        policies, best practices, and training for the Department.
            (3) Implementation plan.--Not later than 180 days after 
        developing the strategy required under paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security shall develop an implementation 
        plan for the strategy, which shall outline departmental lead 
        and support roles, responsibilities, programs, and timelines 
        for accomplishing the goals and objectives of the strategy.
            (4) Briefing.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
        provide annual briefings to the Committee on Homeland Security 
        and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Homeland Security of the House of Representatives regarding the 
        progress made in addressing the implementation plan developed 
        pursuant to paragraph (3).
    (b) Assessment of Drug Task Forces.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
        conduct an assessment of the counterdrug task forces in which 
        the Department of Homeland Security, including components of 
        the Department, participates in or leads, which shall include--
                    (A) areas of potential overlap;
                    (B) opportunities for sharing information and best 
                practices;
                    (C) how the Department's processes for ensuring 
                accountability and transparency in its vetting and 
                oversight of partner agency task force members align 
                with best practices; and
                    (D) corrective action plans for any capability 
                limitations and deficient or negative findings 
                identified in the report for any such task forces led 
                by the Department.
            (2) Coordination.--In conducting the assessment required 
        under paragraph (1), with respect to counterdrug task forces 
        that include foreign partners, the Secretary of Homeland 
        Security shall coordinate with the Secretary of State.
            (3) Report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
                Homeland Security shall submit a report to the 
                Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
                of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security of 
                the House of Representatives that contains a summary of 
                the results of the assessment conducted pursuant to 
                paragraph (1).
                    (B) Foreign partners.--If the report submitted 
                under subparagraph (A) includes information about 
                counterdrug forces that include foreign partners, the 
                Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit the report 
                to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
                the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (4) Corrective action plan.--The Secretary of Homeland 
        Security shall--
                    (A) implement the corrective action plans described 
                in paragraph (1)(D) immediately after the submission of 
                the report pursuant to paragraph (2); and
                    (B) provide annual briefings to the Committee on 
                Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the 
                Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security of the 
                House of Representatives regarding the progress made in 
                implementing the corrective action plans.
    (c) Combination of Briefings.--The Secretary of Homeland Security 
may combine the briefings required under subsections (a)(4) and 
(b)(3)(B) and provide such combined briefings through fiscal year 2026.

SEC. 11103. DANGER PAY FOR DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY PERSONNEL 
              DEPLOYED ABROAD.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle H of title VIII of the Homeland Security 
Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 451 et seq.) is amended by inserting after 
section 881 the following:

``SEC. 881A. DANGER PAY ALLOWANCE.

    ``(a) Authorization.--An employee of the Department, while 
stationed in a foreign area, may be granted a danger pay allowance, not 
to exceed 35 percent of the basic pay of such employee, for any period 
during which such foreign area experiences a civil insurrection, a 
civil war, ongoing terrorist acts, or wartime conditions that threaten 
physical harm or imminent danger to the health or well-being of such 
employee.
    ``(b) Notice.--Before granting or terminating a danger pay 
allowance to any employee pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary, 
after consultation with the Secretary of State, shall notify the 
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate, 
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, the Committee on 
Homeland Security of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives of--
            ``(1) the intent to make such payments and the 
        circumstances justifying such payments; or
            ``(2) the intent to terminate such payments and the 
        circumstances justifying such termination.''.

SEC. 11104. IMPROVING TRAINING TO FOREIGN-VETTED LAW ENFORCEMENT OR 
              NATIONAL SECURITY UNITS.

    The Secretary of Homeland Security, or the designee of the 
Secretary, may, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, provide 
training to foreign-vetted law enforcement or national security units 
and may waive reimbursement for salary expenses of such Department of 
Homeland Security personnel, in accordance with an agreement with the 
Department of Defense pursuant to section 1535 of title 31, United 
States Code.

SEC. 11105. ENHANCING THE OPERATIONS OF U.S. CUSTOMS AND BORDER 
              PROTECTION IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.

    Section 411(f) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 
211(f)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
            ``(4) Permissible activities.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Employees of U.S. Customs and 
                Border Protection and other customs officers designated 
                in accordance with the authorities granted to officers 
                and agents of Air and Marine Operations may, with the 
                concurrence of the Secretary of State, provide the 
                support described in subparagraph (B) to authorities of 
                the government of a foreign country if an arrangement 
                has been entered into between the Government of the 
                United States and the government of such country that 
                permits such support by such employees and officers.
                    ``(B) Support described.--The support described in 
                this subparagraph is support for--
                            ``(i) the monitoring, locating, tracking, 
                        and deterrence of--
                                    ``(I) illegal drugs to the United 
                                States;
                                    ``(II) the illicit smuggling of 
                                persons and goods into the United 
                                States;
                                    ``(III) terrorist threats to the 
                                United States; and
                                    ``(IV) other threats to the 
                                security or economy of the United 
                                States;
                            ``(ii) emergency humanitarian efforts; and
                            ``(iii) law enforcement capacity-building 
                        efforts.
                    ``(C) Payment of claims.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Subject to clauses (ii) 
                        and (iv), the Secretary, with the concurrence 
                        of the Secretary of State, may expend funds 
                        that have been appropriated or otherwise made 
                        available for the operating expenses of the 
                        Department to pay claims for money damages 
                        against the United States, in accordance with 
                        the first paragraph of section 2672 of title 
                        28, United States Code, which arise in a 
                        foreign country in connection with U.S. Customs 
                        and Border Protection operations in such 
                        country.
                            ``(ii) Submission deadline.--A claim may be 
                        allowed under clause (i) only if it is 
                        presented not later than 2 years after it 
                        accrues.
                            ``(iii) Report.--Not later than 90 days 
                        after the date on which the expenditure 
                        authority under clause (i) expires pursuant to 
                        clause (iv), the Secretary shall submit a 
                        report to the Committee on Homeland Security 
                        and Governmental Affairs and the Committee on 
                        Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
                        Committee on Homeland Security and Committee on 
                        Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives 
                        that describes, for each of the payments made 
                        pursuant to clause (i)--
                                    ``(I) the foreign entity that 
                                received such payment;
                                    ``(II) the amount paid to such 
                                foreign entity;
                                    ``(III) the country in which such 
                                foreign entity resides or has its 
                                principal place of business; and
                                    ``(IV) a detailed account of the 
                                circumstances justify such payment.
                            ``(iv) Sunset.--The expenditure authority 
                        under clause (i) shall expire on the date that 
                        is 5 years after the date of the enactment of 
                        the Enhancing DHS Drug Seizures Act.''.

SEC. 11106. DRUG SEIZURE DATA IMPROVEMENT.

    (a) Study.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall conduct a study 
to identify any opportunities for improving drug seizure data 
collection.
    (b) Elements.--The study required under subsection (a) shall--
            (1) include a survey of the entities that use drug seizure 
        data; and
            (2) address--
                    (A) any additional data fields or drug type 
                categories that should be added to U.S. Customs and 
                Border Protection's SEACATS, U.S. Border Patrol's e3 
                portal, and any other systems deemed appropriate by the 
                Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, in 
                accordance with the first recommendation in the 
                Government Accountability Office's report GAO-22-
                104725, entitled ``Border Security: CBP Could Improve 
                How It Categorizes Drug Seizure Data and Evaluates 
                Training'';
                    (B) how all the Department of Homeland Security 
                components that collect drug seizure data can 
                standardize their data collection efforts and 
                deconflict drug seizure reporting;
                    (C) how the Department of Homeland Security can 
                better identify, collect, and analyze additional data 
                on precursor chemicals, synthetic drugs, novel 
                psychoactive substances, and analogues that have been 
                seized by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and U.S. 
                Immigration and Customs Enforcement; and
                    (D) how the Department of Homeland Security can 
                improve its model of anticipated drug flow into the 
                United States.
    (c) Implementation of Findings.--Following the completion of the 
study required under subsection (a)--
            (1) the Secretary of Homeland Security, in accordance with 
        the Office of National Drug Control Policy's 2022 National Drug 
        Control Strategy, shall modify Department of Homeland Security 
        drug seizure policies and training programs, as appropriate, 
        consistent with the findings of such study; and
            (2) the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, 
        in consultation with the Director of U.S. Immigration and 
        Customs Enforcement, shall make any necessary updates to 
        relevant systems to include the results of confirmatory drug 
        testing results.

SEC. 11107. DRUG PERFORMANCE MEASURES.

     Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Homeland Security shall develop and implement a plan 
to ensure that components of the Department of Homeland Security 
develop and maintain outcome-based performance measures that adequately 
assess the success of drug interdiction efforts and how to utilize the 
existing drug-related metrics and performance measures to achieve the 
missions, goals, and targets of the Department.

SEC. 11108. PENALTIES FOR HINDERING IMMIGRATION, BORDER, AND CUSTOMS 
              CONTROLS.

    (a) Personnel and Structures.--Title II of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1151 et seq.) is amended by inserting after 
section 274D the following:

``SECTION 274E. DESTROYING OR EVADING BORDER CONTROLS.

    ``(a) In General.--It shall be unlawful to knowingly and without 
lawful authorization--
            ``(1)(A) destroy or significantly damage any fence, 
        barrier, sensor, camera, or other physical or electronic device 
        deployed by the Federal Government to control an international 
        border of, or a port of entry to, the United States; or
            ``(B) otherwise construct, excavate, or make any structure 
        intended to defeat, circumvent or evade such a fence, barrier, 
        sensor camera, or other physical or electronic device deployed 
        by the Federal Government to control an international border 
        of, or a port of entry to, the United States; and
            ``(2) in carrying out an act described in paragraph (1), 
        have the intent to knowingly and willfully--
                    ``(A) secure a financial gain;
                    ``(B) further the objectives of a criminal 
                organization; and
                    ``(C) violate--
                            ``(i) section 274(a)(1)(A)(i);
                            ``(ii) the customs and trade laws of the 
                        United States (as defined in section 2(4) of 
                        the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement 
                        Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-125));
                            ``(iii) any other Federal law relating to 
                        transporting controlled substances, 
                        agriculture, or monetary instruments into the 
                        United States; or
                            ``(iv) any Federal law relating to border 
                        controls measures of the United States.
    ``(b) Penalty.--Any person who violates subsection (a) shall be 
fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned for not more than 
5 years, or both.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the Immigration 
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.) is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 274D the following:

``Sec. 274E. Destroying or evading border controls.''.

           Subtitle B--Non-Intrusive Inspection Expansion Act

SEC. 11111. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Non-Intrusive Inspection 
Expansion Act''.

SEC. 11112. USE OF NON-INTRUSIVE INSPECTION SYSTEMS AT LAND PORTS OF 
              ENTRY.

    (a) Fiscal Year 2026.--Using non-intrusive inspection systems 
acquired through previous appropriations Acts, beginning not later than 
September 30, 2026, U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall use non-
intrusive inspection systems at land ports of entry to scan, 
cumulatively, at ports of entry where systems are in place by the 
deadline, not fewer than--
            (1) 40 percent of passenger vehicles entering the United 
        States; and
            (2) 90 percent of commercial vehicles entering the United 
        States.
    (b) Subsequent Fiscal Years.--Beginning in fiscal year 2027, U.S. 
Customs and Border Protection shall use non-intrusive inspection 
systems at land ports of entry to reach the next projected benchmark 
for incremental scanning of passenger and commercial vehicles entering 
the United States at such ports of entry.
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than May 30, 2026, the Commissioner of 
U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall brief the Committee on 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the 
Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives 
regarding the progress made during the first half of fiscal year 2026 
in achieving the scanning benchmarks described in subsection (a).
    (d) Report.--If the scanning benchmarks described in subsection (a) 
are not met by the end of fiscal year 2026, not later than 120 days 
after the end of that fiscal year, the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and 
Border Protection shall submit a report to the Committee on Homeland 
Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
Homeland Security of the House of Representatives that--
            (1) analyzes the causes for not meeting such requirements;
            (2) identifies any resource gaps and challenges; and
            (3) details the steps that will be taken to ensure 
        compliance with such requirements in the subsequent fiscal 
        year.

SEC. 11113. NON-INTRUSIVE INSPECTION SYSTEMS FOR OUTBOUND INSPECTIONS.

    (a) Strategy.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection shall submit a strategy to the Committee on Homeland 
Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
Homeland Security of the House of Representatives for increasing 
sustained outbound inspection operations at land ports of entry that 
includes--
            (1) the number of existing and planned outbound inspection 
        lanes at each port of entry;
            (2) infrastructure limitations that limit the ability of 
        U.S. Customs and Border Protection to deploy non-intrusive 
        inspection systems for outbound inspections;
            (3) the number of additional non-intrusive inspection 
        systems that are necessary to increase scanning capacity for 
        outbound inspections; and
            (4) plans for funding and acquiring the systems described 
        in paragraph (3).
    (b) Implementation.--Beginning not later than September 30, 2026, 
U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall use non-intrusive inspection 
systems at land ports of entry to scan not fewer than 10 percent of all 
vehicles exiting the United States through land ports of entry.

SEC. 11114. GAO REVIEW AND REPORT.

    (a) Review.--
            (1) In general.--The Comptroller General of the United 
        States shall conduct a review of the use by U.S. Customs and 
        Border Protection of non-intrusive inspection systems for 
        border security.
            (2) Elements.--The review required under paragraph (1) 
        shall--
                    (A) identify--
                            (i) the number and types of non-intrusive 
                        inspection systems deployed by U.S. Customs and 
                        Border Protection; and
                            (ii) the locations to which such systems 
                        have been deployed; and
                    (B) examine the manner in which U.S. Customs and 
                Border Protection--
                            (i) assesses the effectiveness of such 
                        systems; and
                            (ii) uses such systems in conjunction with 
                        other border security resources and assets, 
                        such as border barriers and technology, to 
                        detect and interdict drug smuggling and 
                        trafficking at the southwest border of the 
                        United States.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit a report to the 
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate 
and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives 
containing the findings of the review conducted pursuant to subsection 
(a).

       Subtitle C--Securing America's Ports of Entry Act of 2023

SEC. 11121. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Securing America's Ports of 
Entry Act of 2023''.

SEC. 11122. ADDITIONAL U.S. CUSTOMS AND BORDER PROTECTION PERSONNEL.

    (a) Officers.--Subject to appropriations, the Commissioner of U.S. 
Customs and Border Protection shall hire, train, and assign not fewer 
than 600 new U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers above the 
current attrition level during every fiscal year until the total number 
of U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers equals and sustains the 
requirements identified each year in the Workload Staffing Model.
    (b) Support Staff.--The Commissioner is authorized to hire, train, 
and assign support staff, including technicians and Enterprise Services 
mission support, to perform non-law enforcement administrative 
functions to support the new U.S. Customs and Border Protection 
officers hired pursuant to subsection (a).
    (c) Traffic Forecasts.--In calculating the number of U.S. Customs 
and Border Protection officers needed at each port of entry through the 
Workload Staffing Model, the Commissioner shall--
            (1) rely on data collected regarding the inspections and 
        other activities conducted at each such port of entry;
            (2) consider volume from seasonal surges, other projected 
        changes in commercial and passenger volumes, the most current 
        commercial forecasts, and other relevant information;
            (3) consider historical volume and forecasts prior to the 
        COVID-19 pandemic and the impact on international travel; and
            (4) incorporate personnel requirements for increasing the 
        rate of outbound inspection operations at land ports of entry.
    (d) GAO Report.--If the Commissioner does not hire the 600 
additional U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers authorized under 
subsection (a) during fiscal year 2024, or during any subsequent fiscal 
year in which the hiring requirements set forth in the Workload 
Staffing Model have not been achieved, the Comptroller General of the 
United States shall--
            (1) conduct a review of U.S. Customs and Border Protection 
        hiring practices to determine the reasons that such 
        requirements were not achieved and other issues related to 
        hiring by U.S. Customs and Border Protection; and
            (2) submit a report to the Committee on Homeland Security 
        and Governmental Affairs of the Senate, the Committee on 
        Finance of the Senate, the Committee on Homeland Security of 
        the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Ways and 
        Means of the House of Representatives that describes the 
        results of the review conducted pursuant to paragraph (1).

SEC. 11123. PORTS OF ENTRY INFRASTRUCTURE ENHANCEMENT REPORT.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall submit a 
report to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
of the Senate, the Committee on Finance of the Senate, the Committee on 
Homeland Security of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
Ways and Means of the House of Representatives that identifies--
            (1) infrastructure improvements at ports of entry that 
        would enhance the ability of U.S. Customs and Border Protection 
        officers to interdict opioids and other drugs that are being 
        illegally transported into the United States, including a 
        description of circumstances at specific ports of entry that 
        prevent the deployment of technology used at other ports of 
        entry;
            (2) detection equipment that would improve the ability of 
        such officers to identify opioids, including precursors and 
        derivatives, that are being illegally transported into the 
        United States; and
            (3) safety equipment that would protect such officers from 
        accidental exposure to such drugs or other dangers associated 
        with the inspection of potential drug traffickers.

SEC. 11124. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Temporary Duty Assignments.--
            (1) Quarterly report.--The Commissioner of U.S. Customs and 
        Border Protection shall submit a quarterly report to the 
        appropriate congressional committees that includes, for the 
        reporting period--
                    (A) the number of temporary duty assignments;
                    (B) the number of U.S. Customs and Border 
                Protection officers required for each temporary duty 
                assignment;
                    (C) the ports of entry from which such officers 
                were reassigned;
                    (D) the ports of entry to which such officers were 
                reassigned;
                    (E) the ports of entry at which reimbursable 
                service agreements have been entered into that may be 
                affected by temporary duty assignments;
                    (F) the duration of each temporary duty assignment;
                    (G) the cost of each temporary duty assignment; and
                    (H) the extent to which the temporary duty 
                assignments within the reporting period were in support 
                of the other U.S. Customs and Border Protection 
                activities or operations along the southern border of 
                the United States, including the specific costs 
                associated with such temporary duty assignments.
            (2) Notice.--Not later than 10 days before redeploying 
        employees from 1 port of entry to another, absent emergency 
        circumstances--
                    (A) the Commissioner shall notify the director of 
                the port of entry from which employees will be 
                reassigned of the intended redeployments; and
                    (B) the port director shall notify impacted 
                facilities (including airports, seaports, and land 
                ports) of the intended redeployments.
            (3) Staff briefing.--The Commissioner shall brief all 
        affected U.S. Customs and Border Protection employees regarding 
        plans to mitigate vulnerabilities created by any planned 
        staffing reductions at ports of entry.
    (b) Reports on U.S. Customs and Border Protection Agreements.--
Section 907(a) of the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 
2015 (19 U.S.C. 4451(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``and an assessment'' and 
        all that follows and inserting a period;
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through (12) as 
        paragraphs (5) through (13), respectively;
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
            ``(4) A description of the factors that were considered 
        before entering into the agreement, including an assessment of 
        how the agreement provides economic benefits and security 
        benefits (if applicable) at the port of entry to which the 
        agreement relates.''; and
            (4) in paragraph (5), as redesignated by paragraph (2), by 
        inserting after ``the report'' the following: ``, including the 
        locations of such services and the total hours of reimbursable 
        services under the agreement, if any''.
    (c) Annual Workload Staffing Model Report.--As part of the Annual 
Report on Staffing required under section 411(g)(5)(A) of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 211(g)(5)(A)), the Commissioner shall 
include--
            (1) information concerning the progress made toward meeting 
        the U.S. Customs and Border Protection officer and support 
        staff hiring targets set forth in section 2, while accounting 
        for attrition;
            (2) an update to the information provided in the Resource 
        Optimization at the Ports of Entry report, which was submitted 
        to Congress on September 12, 2017, pursuant to the Department 
        of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2017 (division F of 
        Public Law 115-31); and
            (3) a summary of the information included in the reports 
        required under subsection (a) and section 907(a) of the Trade 
        Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015, as amended by 
        subsection (b).
    (d) CBP One Mobile Application.--During the 2-year period beginning 
on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commissioner of U.S. 
Customs and Border Protection shall publish a monthly report on the use 
of the CBP One mobile application, including, with respect to each 
reporting period--
            (1) the number of application registration attempts made 
        through CBP One pursuant to the Circumvention of Lawful 
        Pathways final rule (88 Fed. Reg. 31314 (May 16, 2023)) that 
        resulted in a system error, disaggregated by error type;
            (2) the total number of noncitizens who successfully 
        registered appointments through CBP One pursuant to such rule;
            (3) the total number of appointments made through CBP One 
        pursuant to such rule that went unused;
            (4) the total number of individuals who have been granted 
        parole with a Notice to Appear subsequent to appointments 
        scheduled for such individuals through CBP One pursuant to such 
        rule; and
            (5) the total number of noncitizens who have been issued a 
        Notice to Appear and have been transferred to U.S. Immigration 
        and Customs Enforcement custody subsequent to appointments 
        scheduled for such noncitizens through CBP One pursuant to such 
        rule.
    (e) Defined Term.--In this section, the term ``appropriate 
congressional committees'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
        Affairs of the Senate;
            (2) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
            (3) the Committee on Finance of the Senate;
            (4) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
        Representatives
            (5) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives; and
            (6) the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of 
        Representatives.

SEC. 11125. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subtitle--
            (1) $136,292,948 for fiscal year 2024; and
            (2) $156,918,590 for each of the fiscal years 2025 through 
        2029.

               Subtitle D--Border Patrol Enhancement Act

SEC. 11131. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Border Patrol Enhancement 
Act''.

SEC. 11132. AUTHORIZED STAFFING LEVEL FOR THE UNITED STATES BORDER 
              PATROL.

    (a) Defined Term.--In this subtitle, the term ``validated personnel 
requirements determination model'' means a determination of the number 
of United States Border Patrol agents needed to meet the critical 
mission requirements of the United States Border Patrol to maintain an 
orderly process for migrants entering the United States, that has been 
validated by a qualified research entity pursuant to subsection (c).
    (b) United States Border Patrol Personnel Requirements 
Determination Model.--
            (1) Completion; notice.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Commissioner shall 
        complete a personnel requirements determination model for 
        United States Border Patrol that builds on the 5-year United 
        States Border Patrol staffing and deployment plan referred to 
        on page 33 of House of Representatives Report 112-91 (May 26, 
        2011) and submit a notice of completion to--
                    (A) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House 
                of Representatives;
                    (C) the Director of the Office of Personnel 
                Management; and
                    (D) the Comptroller General of the United States.
            (2) Certification.--Not later than 30 days after the 
        completion of the personnel requirements determination model 
        described in paragraph (1), the Commissioner shall submit a 
        copy of such model, an explanation of its development, and a 
        strategy for obtaining independent verification of such model, 
        to--
                    (A) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House 
                of Representatives;
                    (C) the Office of Personnel Management; and
                    (D) the Comptroller General of the United States.
    (c) Independent Study of Personnel Requirements Determination 
Model.--
            (1) Requirement for study.--Not later than 90 days after 
        the completion of the personnel requirements determination 
        model pursuant to subsection (b)(1), the Secretary of Homeland 
        Security shall select an entity that is technically, 
        managerially, and financially independent from the Department 
        of Homeland Security to conduct an independent verification and 
        validation of the model.
            (2) Reports.--
                    (A) To secretary.--Not later than 1 year after the 
                completion of the personnel requirements determination 
                model under subsection (b)(1), the entity performing 
                the independent verification and validation of the 
                model shall submit a report to the Secretary of 
                Homeland Security that includes--
                            (i) the results of the study conducted 
                        pursuant to paragraph (1); and
                            (ii) any recommendations regarding the 
                        model that such entity considers to be 
                        appropriate.
                    (B) To congress.--Not later than 30 days after 
                receiving the report described in subparagraph (A), the 
                Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit such 
                report, along with any additional views or 
                recommendations regarding the personnel requirements 
                determination model, to the Committee on Homeland 
                Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the 
                Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
                Representatives.
    (d) Authority To Hire Additional Personnel.--Beginning on the date 
that is 180 days after receiving a report from a qualified research 
entity pursuant to subsection (c)(2) that validates the personnel 
requirements determination model and after implementing any 
recommendations to improve or update such model, the Secretary of 
Homeland Security may hire, train, and assign 600 or more United States 
Border Patrol agents above the attrition level during every fiscal year 
until the number of active agents meets the level recommended by the 
validated personnel requirements determination model.

SEC. 11133. ESTABLISHMENT OF HIGHER RATES OF REGULARLY SCHEDULED 
              OVERTIME PAY FOR UNITED STATES BORDER PATROL AGENTS 
              CLASSIFIED AT GS-12.

    Section 5550 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(h) Special Overtime Pay for GS-12 Border Patrol Agents.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding paragraphs (1)(F), 
        (2)(C), and (3)(C) of subsection (b), a border patrol agent 
        encumbering a position at grade GS-12 shall receive a special 
        overtime payment under this subsection for hours of regularly 
        scheduled work described in paragraph (2)(A)(ii) or (3)(A)(ii) 
        of subsection (b), as applicable, that are credited to the 
        agent through actual performance of work, crediting under rules 
        for canine agents under subsection (b)(1)(F), or substitution 
        of overtime hours in the same work period under subsection 
        (f)(2)(A), except that no such payment may be made for periods 
        of absence resulting in an hours obligation under paragraph (3) 
        or (4) of subsection (f).
            ``(2) Computation.--The special overtime payment authorized 
        under paragraph (1) shall be computed by multiplying the 
        credited hours by 50 percent of the border patrol agent's 
        hourly rate of basic pay, rounded to the nearest cent.
            ``(3) Limitations.--The special overtime payment authorized 
        under paragraph (1)--
                    ``(A) is not considered basic pay for retirement 
                under section 8331(3) or 8401(4) or for any other 
                purpose;
                    ``(B) is not payable during periods of paid leave 
                or other paid time off; and
                    ``(C) is not considered in computing an agent's 
                lump-sum annual leave payment under sections 5551 and 
                5552.''.

SEC. 11134. GAO ASSESSMENT OF RECRUITING EFFORTS, HIRING REQUIREMENTS, 
              AND RETENTION OF LAW ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL.

    The Comptroller General of the United States shall--
            (1) conduct an assessment of U.S. Customs and Border 
        Protection's--
                    (A) efforts to recruit law enforcement personnel;
                    (B) hiring process and job requirements relating to 
                such recruitment; and
                    (C) retention of law enforcement personnel, 
                including the impact of employee compensation on such 
                retention efforts; and
            (2) not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, submit a report containing the results of such 
        assessment to--
                    (A) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House 
                of Representatives.

SEC. 11135. CONTINUING TRAINING.

    (a) In General.--The Commissioner shall require all United States 
Border Patrol agents and other employees or contracted employees 
designated by the Commissioner, to participate in annual continuing 
training to maintain and update their understanding of--
            (1) Department of Homeland Security policies, procedures, 
        and guidelines;
            (2) the fundamentals of law, ethics, and professional 
        conduct;
            (3) applicable Federal law and regulations;
            (4) precedential legal rulings, including Federal Circuit 
        Court and United States Supreme Court opinions relating to the 
        duty of care and treatment of persons in the custody of the 
        United States Border Patrol that the Commissioner determines 
        are relevant to active duty agents;
            (5) applicable migration trends that the Commissioner 
        determines are relevant;
            (6) best practices for coordinating with community 
        stakeholders; and
            (7) any other information that the Commissioner determines 
        to be relevant to active duty agents.
    (b) Training Subjects.--Continuing training under this subsection 
shall include training regarding--
            (1) non-lethal use of force policies available to United 
        States Border Patrol agents and de-escalation strategies and 
        methods;
            (2) identifying, screening, and responding to vulnerable 
        populations, such as children, persons with diminished mental 
        capacity, victims of human trafficking, pregnant mothers, 
        victims of gender-based violence, victims of torture or abuse, 
        and the acutely ill;
            (3) trends in transnational criminal organization 
        activities that impact border security and migration;
            (4) policies, strategies, and programs--
                    (A) to protect due process, the civil, human, and 
                privacy rights of individuals, and the private property 
                rights of land owners;
                    (B) to reduce the number of migrant and agent 
                deaths; and
                    (C) to improve the safety of agents on patrol;
            (5) personal resilience;
            (6) anti-corruption and officer ethics training;
            (7) current migration trends, including updated cultural 
        and societal issues of nations that are a significant source of 
        migrants who are--
                    (A) arriving at a United States port of entry to 
                seek humanitarian protection; or
                    (B) encountered at a United States international 
                boundary while attempting to enter without inspection;
            (8) the impact of border security operations on natural 
        resources and the environment, including strategies to limit 
        the impact of border security operations on natural resources 
        and the environment;
            (9) relevant cultural, societal, racial, and religious 
        training, including cross-cultural communication skills;
            (10) training authorized under the Prison Rape Elimination 
        Act of 2003 (42 U.S.C. 15601 et seq.);
            (11) risk management and safety training that includes 
        agency protocols for ensuring public safety, personal safety, 
        and the safety of persons in the custody of the Department of 
        Homeland Security;
            (12) non-lethal, self-defense training; and
            (13) any other training that meets the requirements to 
        maintain and update the subjects identified in subsection (a).
    (c) Course Requirements.--Courses offered under this section--
            (1) shall be administered by the United States Border 
        Patrol, in consultation with the Federal Law Enforcement 
        Training Center; and
            (2) shall be approved in advance by the Commissioner of 
        U.S. Customs and Border Protection to ensure that such courses 
        satisfy the requirements for training under this section.
    (d) Assessment.--Not later than 2 years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit a report to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland 
Security of the House of Representatives that assesses the training and 
education provided pursuant to this section, including continuing 
education.
    (e) Frequency Requirements.--Training offered as part of continuing 
education under this section shall include--
            (1) annual courses focusing on the curriculum described in 
        paragraphs (1) through (6) of subsection (b); and
            (2) biannual courses focusing on curriculum described in 
        paragraphs (7) through (12) of subsection (b).

SEC. 11136. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Recruitment and Retention Report.--The Comptroller General of 
the United States shall--
            (1) conduct a study of the recruitment and retention of 
        female agents in the United States Border Patrol that 
        examines--
                    (A) the recruitment, application processes, 
                training, promotion, and other aspects of employment 
                for women in the United States Border Patrol;
                    (B) the training, complaints system, and redress 
                for sexual harassment and assault; and
                    (C) additional issues related to recruitment and 
                retention of female Border Patrol agents; and
            (2) not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, submit a report containing the results of such 
        study and recommendations for addressing any identified 
        deficiencies or opportunities for improvement to--
                    (A) the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border 
                Protection;
                    (B) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
                    (C) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House 
                of Representatives.
    (b) Implementation Report.--Not later than 90 days after receiving 
the recruitment and retention report required under subsection (a), the 
Commissioner shall submit a report to the Committee on Homeland 
Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
Homeland Security of the House of Representatives that describes the 
status of the Commissioner's efforts to implement any recommendations 
included in recruitment and retention report.

                      Subtitle E--END FENTANYL Act

SEC. 11141. SHORT TITLES.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Eradicating Narcotic Drugs and 
Formulating Effective New Tools to Address National Yearly Losses of 
Life Act'' or the ``END FENTANYL Act''.

SEC. 11142. ENSURING TIMELY UPDATES TO U.S. CUSTOMS AND BORDER 
              PROTECTION FIELD MANUALS.

    (a) In General.--Not less frequently than triennially, the 
Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall review and 
update, as necessary, the current policies and manuals of the Office of 
Field Operations related to inspections at ports of entry to ensure the 
uniform implementation of inspection practices that will effectively 
respond to technological and methodological changes designed to 
disguise illegal activity, such as the smuggling of drugs and humans, 
along the border.
    (b) Reporting Requirement.--Shortly after each update required 
under subsection (a), the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection shall submit a report to the Committee on Homeland Security 
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland 
Security of the House of Representatives that summarizes the policy and 
manual changes implemented by such update.

         TITLE LXXI--IMPROVING LOBBYING DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS

            Subtitle A--Lobbying Disclosure Improvement Act

SEC. 11201. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Lobbying Disclosure Improvement 
Act''.

SEC. 11202. REGISTRANT DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN AGENT REGISTRATION 
              EXEMPTION.

    Section 4(b) of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 
1603(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (6), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (7), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(8) a statement as to whether the registrant is exempt 
        under section 3(h) of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 
        1938, as amended (22 U.S.C. 613(h)).''.

        Subtitle B--Disclosing Foreign Influence in Lobbying Act

SEC. 11211. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Disclosing Foreign Influence in 
Lobbying Act''.

SEC. 11212. CLARIFICATION OF CONTENTS OF REGISTRATION.

    Section 4(b) of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 
1603(b)), as amended by section 11202 of this title, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (8), as added by section 11202 of this 
        title, by striking the period at the end and inserting ``; 
        and''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(9) notwithstanding paragraph (4), the name and address 
        of each government of a foreign country (including any agency 
        or subdivision of a government of a foreign country, such as a 
        regional or municipal unit of government) and foreign political 
        party, other than the client, that participates in the 
        direction, planning, supervision, or control of any lobbying 
        activities of the registrant.''.

    TITLE LXXII--PROTECTING OUR DOMESTIC WORKFORCE AND SUPPLY CHAIN

  Subtitle A--Government-wide Study Relating to High-security Leased 
                                 Space

SEC. 11301. GOVERNMENT-WIDE STUDY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of General Services.
            (2) Beneficial owner.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``beneficial owner'', 
                with respect to a covered entity, means each natural 
                person who, directly or indirectly, through any 
                contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship, or 
                otherwise--
                            (i) exercises substantial control over the 
                        covered entity; or
                            (ii) owns or controls not less than 25 
                        percent of the ownership interests of, or 
                        receives substantial economic benefits from the 
                        assets of, the covered entity.
                    (B) Exclusions.--The term ``beneficial owner'', 
                with respect to a covered entity, does not include--
                            (i) a minor;
                            (ii) a person acting as a nominee, 
                        intermediary, custodian, or agent on behalf of 
                        another person;
                            (iii) a person acting solely as an employee 
                        of the covered entity and whose control over or 
                        economic benefits from the covered entity 
                        derives solely from the employment status of 
                        the person;
                            (iv) a person whose only interest in the 
                        covered entity is through a right of 
                        inheritance, unless the person also meets the 
                        requirements of subparagraph (A); or
                            (v) a creditor of the covered entity, 
                        unless the creditor also meets the requirements 
                        of subparagraph (A).
                    (C) Anti-abuse rule.--The exclusions under 
                subparagraph (B) shall not apply if, in the 
                determination of the Administrator, an exclusion is 
                used for the purpose of evading, circumventing, or 
                abusing the requirements of this Act.
            (3) Control.--The term ``control'', with respect to a 
        covered entity, means--
                    (A) having the authority or ability to determine 
                how the covered entity is utilized; or
                    (B) having some decisionmaking power for the use of 
                the covered entity.
            (4) Covered entity.--The term ``covered entity'' means--
                    (A) a person, corporation, company, business 
                association, partnership, society, trust, or any other 
                nongovernmental entity, organization, or group; or
                    (B) any governmental entity or instrumentality of a 
                government.
            (5) Executive agency.--The term ``Executive agency'' has 
        the meaning given the term in section 105 of title 5, United 
        States Code.
            (6) Federal agency.--The term ``Federal agency'' means--
                    (A) an Executive agency; and
                    (B) any establishment in the legislative or 
                judicial branch of the Federal Government.
            (7) Federal lessee.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``Federal lessee'' 
                means--
                            (i) the Administrator;
                            (ii) the Architect of the Capitol; and
                            (iii) the head of any other Federal agency 
                        that has independent statutory leasing 
                        authority.
                    (B) Exclusions.--The term ``Federal lessee'' does 
                not include--
                            (i) the head of an element of the 
                        intelligence community; or
                            (ii) the Secretary of Defense.
            (8) Federal tenant.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``Federal tenant'' means 
                a Federal agency that is occupying or will occupy a 
                high-security leased space for which a lease agreement 
                has been secured on behalf of the Federal agency.
                    (B) Exclusion.--The term ``Federal tenant'' does 
                not include an element of the intelligence community.
            (9) Foreign entity.--The term ``foreign entity'' means--
                    (A) a corporation, company, business association, 
                partnership, society, trust, or any other 
                nongovernmental entity, organization, or group that is 
                headquartered in or organized under the laws of--
                            (i) a country that is not the United 
                        States; or
                            (ii) a State, unit of local government, or 
                        Indian Tribe that is not located within or a 
                        territory of the United States; or
                    (B) a government or governmental instrumentality 
                that is not--
                            (i) the United States Government; or
                            (ii) a State, unit of local government, or 
                        Indian Tribe that is located within or a 
                        territory of the United States.
            (10) Foreign person.--The term ``foreign person'' means an 
        individual who is not a United States person.
            (11) High-security leased adjacent space.--The term ``high-
        security leased adjacent space'' means a building or office 
        space that shares a boundary with or surrounds a high-security 
        leased space.
            (12) High-security leased space.--The term ``high-security 
        leased space'' means a space leased by a Federal lessee that--
                    (A) will be occupied by Federal employees for 
                nonmilitary activities; and
                    (B) has a facility security level of III, IV, or V, 
                as determined by the Federal tenant in consultation 
                with the Interagency Security Committee, the Secretary 
                of Homeland Security, and the Administrator.
            (13) Highest-level owner.--The term ``highest-level owner'' 
        means an entity that owns or controls--
                    (A) an immediate owner of the offeror of a lease 
                for a high-security leased adjacent space; or
                    (B) 1 or more entities that control an immediate 
                owner of the offeror of a lease described in 
                subparagraph (A).
            (14) Immediate owner.--The term ``immediate owner'' means 
        an entity, other than the offeror of a lease for a high-
        security leased adjacent space, that has direct control of that 
        offeror, including--
                    (A) ownership or interlocking management;
                    (B) identity of interests among family members;
                    (C) shared facilities and equipment; and
                    (D) the common use of employees.
            (15) Intelligence community.--The term ``intelligence 
        community'' has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the 
        National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
            (16) Substantial economic benefits.--The term ``substantial 
        economic benefits'', with respect to a natural person described 
        in paragraph (2)(A)(ii), means having an entitlement to the 
        funds or assets of a covered entity that, as a practical 
        matter, enables the person, directly or indirectly, to control, 
        manage, or direct the covered entity.
            (17) United states person.--The term ``United States 
        person'' means an individual who--
                    (A) is a citizen of the United States; or
                    (B) is an alien lawfully admitted for permanent 
                residence in the United States.
    (b) Government-wide Study.--
            (1) Coordination study.--The Administrator, in coordination 
        with the Director of the Federal Protective Service, the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of the Office of 
        Management and Budget, and any other relevant entities, as 
        determined by the Administrator, shall carry out a Government-
        wide study examining options to assist agencies (as defined in 
        section 551 of title 5, United States Code) to produce a 
        security assessment process for high-security leased adjacent 
        space before entering into a lease or novation agreement with a 
        covered entity for the purposes of accommodating a Federal 
        tenant located in a high-security leased space.
            (2) Contents.--The study required under paragraph (1)--
                    (A) shall evaluate how to produce a security 
                assessment process that includes a process for 
                assessing the threat level of each occupancy of a high-
                security leased adjacent space, including through--
                            (i) site-visits;
                            (ii) interviews; and
                            (iii) any other relevant activities 
                        determined necessary by the Director of the 
                        Federal Protective Service; and
                    (B) may include a process for collecting and using 
                information on each immediate owner, highest-level 
                owner, or beneficial owner of a covered entity that 
                seeks to enter into a lease with a Federal lessee for a 
                high-security leased adjacent space, including--
                            (i) name;
                            (ii) current residential or business street 
                        address; and
                            (iii) an identifying number or document 
                        that verifies identity as a United States 
                        person, a foreign person, or a foreign entity.
            (3) Working group.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator, in 
                coordination with the Director of Federal Protective 
                Service, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the 
                Director of the Office of Management and Budget, and 
                any other relevant entities, as determined by the 
                Administrator, shall establish a working group to 
                assist in the carrying out of the study required under 
                paragraph (1).
                    (B) No compensation.--A member of the working group 
                established under subparagraph (A) shall receive no 
                compensation as a result of serving on the working 
                group.
                    (C) Sunset.--The working group established under 
                subparagraph (A) shall terminate on the date on which 
                the report required under paragraph (6) is submitted.
            (4) Protection of information.--The Administrator shall 
        ensure that any information collected pursuant to the study 
        required under paragraph (1) shall not be made available to the 
        public.
            (5) Limitation.--Nothing in this subsection requires an 
        entity located in the United States to provide information 
        requested pursuant to the study required under paragraph (1).
            (6) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Administrator, in coordination with 
        the Director of Federal Protective Service, the Secretary of 
        Homeland Security, the Director of the Office of Management and 
        Budget, and any other relevant entities, as determined by the 
        Administrator, shall submit to the Committee on Homeland 
        Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives a report describing--
                    (A) the results of the study required under 
                paragraph (1); and
                    (B) how all applicable privacy laws and rights 
                relating to the First and Fourth Amendments to the 
                Constitution of the United States would be upheld and 
                followed in--
                            (i) the security assessment process 
                        described in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (2); 
                        and
                            (ii) the information collection process 
                        described in subparagraph (B) of that 
                        paragraph.
            (7) Limitation.--Nothing in this subsection authorizes a 
        Federal entity to mandate information gathering unless 
        specifically authorized by law.
            (8) Prohibition.--No information collected pursuant the 
        security assessment process described in paragraph (2)(A) may 
        be used for law enforcement purposes.
            (9) No additional funding.--No additional funds are 
        authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection.

       Subtitle B--Intergovernmental Critical Minerals Task Force

SEC. 11311. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Intergovernmental Critical 
Minerals Task Force Act''.

SEC. 11312. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) current supply chains of critical minerals pose a great 
        risk to the national security of the United States;
            (2) critical minerals are necessary for transportation, 
        technology, renewable energy, military equipment and machinery, 
        and other relevant sectors crucial for the homeland and 
        national security of the United States;
            (3) in 2022, the United States was 100 percent import 
        reliant for 12 out of 50 critical minerals and more than 50 
        percent import reliant for an additional 31 critical mineral 
        commodities classified as ``critical'' by the United States 
        Geological Survey, and the People's Republic of China was the 
        top producing nation for 30 of those 50 critical minerals;
            (4) as of July, 2023, companies based in the People's 
        Republic of China that extract critical minerals around the 
        world have received hundreds of charges of human rights 
        violations;
            (5) on March 26, 2014, the World Trade Organization ruled 
        that the export restraints by the People's Republic of China on 
        rare earth metals violated obligations under the protocol of 
        accession to the World Trade Organization, which harmed 
        manufacturers and workers in the United States; and
            (6) the President has yet to submit to Congress the plans 
        and recommendations that were due on the December 27, 2022, 
        deadline under section 5(a) of the National Materials and 
        Minerals Policy, Research and Development Act of 1980 (30 
        U.S.C. 1604(a)), which are intended to support a coherent 
        national mineral and materials policy, including through 
        intergovernmental and interagency coordination.

SEC. 11313. INTERGOVERNMENTAL CRITICAL MINERALS TASK FORCE.

    (a) In General.--Section 5 of the National Materials and Minerals 
Policy, Research and Development Act of 1980 (30 U.S.C. 1604) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) Intergovernmental Critical Minerals Task Force.--
            ``(1) Purposes.--The purposes of the task force established 
        under paragraph (3)(B) are--
                    ``(A) to assess the reliance of the United States 
                on the People's Republic of China, and other covered 
                countries, for critical minerals, and the resulting 
                national security risks associated with that reliance, 
                at each level of the Federal Government, Indian Tribes, 
                and State, local, and territorial governments;
                    ``(B) to make recommendations to the President for 
                the implementation of this Act with regard to critical 
                minerals, including--
                            ``(i) the congressional declarations of 
                        policies in section 3; and
                            ``(ii) revisions to the program plan of the 
                        President and the initiatives required under 
                        this section;
                    ``(C) to make recommendations to secure United 
                States and global supply chains for critical minerals;
                    ``(D) to make recommendations to reduce the 
                reliance of the United States, and partners and allies 
                of the United States, on critical mineral supply chains 
                involving covered countries; and
                    ``(E) to facilitate cooperation, coordination, and 
                mutual accountability among each level of the Federal 
                Government, Indian Tribes, and State, local, and 
                territorial governments, on a holistic response to the 
                dependence on covered countries for critical minerals 
                across the United States.
            ``(2) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    ``(A) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
                `appropriate committees of Congress' means--
                            ``(i) the Committees on Homeland Security 
                        and Governmental Affairs, Energy and Natural 
                        Resources, Armed Services, Environment and 
                        Public Works, Commerce, Science, and 
                        Transportation, Finance, and Foreign Relations 
                        of the Senate; and
                            ``(ii) the Committees on Oversight and 
                        Accountability, Natural Resources, Armed 
                        Services, Ways and Means, and Foreign Affairs 
                        of the House of Representatives.
                    ``(B) Chair.--The term `Chair' means a member of 
                the Executive Office of the President, designated by 
                the President pursuant to paragraph (3)(A).
                    ``(C) Covered country.--The term `covered country' 
                means--
                            ``(i) a covered nation (as defined in 
                        section 4872(d) of title 10, United States 
                        Code); and
                            ``(ii) any other country determined by the 
                        task force to be a geostrategic competitor or 
                        adversary of the United States with respect to 
                        critical minerals.
                    ``(D) Critical mineral.--The term `critical 
                mineral' has the meaning given the term in section 
                7002(a) of the Energy Act of 2020 (30 U.S.C. 1606(a)).
                    ``(E) Indian tribe.--The term `Indian Tribe' has 
                the meaning given the term in section 4 of the Indian 
                Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 
                U.S.C. 5304).
                    ``(F) Task force.--The term `task force' means the 
                task force established under paragraph (3)(B).
            ``(3) Establishment.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
        of enactment of this subsection, the President shall--
                    ``(A) designate a Chair for the task force; and
                    ``(B) acting through the Executive Office of the 
                President, establish a task force.
            ``(4) Composition; meetings.--
                    ``(A) Appointment.--The Chair, in consultation with 
                key intergovernmental, private, and public sector 
                stakeholders, shall appoint to the task force 
                representatives with expertise in critical mineral 
                supply chains from Federal agencies, Indian Tribes, and 
                State, local, and territorial governments, including 
                not less than 1 representative from each of--
                            ``(i) the Bureau of Indian Affairs;
                            ``(ii) the Bureau of Land Management;
                            ``(iii) the Critical Minerals Subcommittee 
                        of the National Science and Technology Council;
                            ``(iv) the Department of Agriculture;
                            ``(v) the Department of Commerce;
                            ``(vi) the Department of Defense;
                            ``(vii) the Department of Energy;
                            ``(viii) the Department of Homeland 
                        Security;
                            ``(ix) the Department of the Interior;
                            ``(x) the Department of Labor;
                            ``(xi) the Department of State;
                            ``(xii) the Department of Transportation;
                            ``(xiii) the Environmental Protection 
                        Agency;
                            ``(xiv) the Export-Import Bank of the 
                        United States;
                            ``(xv) the Forest Service;
                            ``(xvi) the General Services 
                        Administration;
                            ``(xvii) the National Science Foundation;
                            ``(xviii) the Office of the United States 
                        Trade Representative;
                            ``(xix) the United States International 
                        Development Finance Corporation;
                            ``(xx) the United States Geological Survey; 
                        and
                            ``(xxi) any other relevant Federal entity, 
                        as determined by the Chair.
                    ``(B) Consultation.--The task force shall consult 
                individuals with expertise in critical mineral supply 
                chains, individuals from States whose communities, 
                businesses, and industries are involved in aspects of 
                critical mineral supply chains, including mining and 
                processing operations, and individuals from a diverse 
                and balanced cross-section of--
                            ``(i) intergovernmental consultees, 
                        including--
                                    ``(I) State governments;
                                    ``(II) local governments;
                                    ``(III) territorial governments; 
                                and
                                    ``(IV) Indian Tribes; and
                            ``(ii) other stakeholders, including--
                                    ``(I) academic research 
                                institutions;
                                    ``(II) corporations;
                                    ``(III) nonprofit organizations;
                                    ``(IV) private sector stakeholders;
                                    ``(V) trade associations;
                                    ``(VI) mining industry 
                                stakeholders; and
                                    ``(VII) labor representatives.
                    ``(C) Meetings.--
                            ``(i) Initial meeting.--Not later than 90 
                        days after the date on which all 
                        representatives of the task force have been 
                        appointed, the task force shall hold the first 
                        meeting of the task force.
                            ``(ii) Frequency.--The task force shall 
                        meet not less than once every 90 days.
            ``(5) Duties.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The duties of the task force 
                shall include--
                            ``(i) facilitating cooperation, 
                        coordination, and mutual accountability for the 
                        Federal Government, Indian Tribes, and State, 
                        local, and territorial governments to enhance 
                        data sharing and transparency to build more 
                        robust and secure domestic supply chains for 
                        critical minerals in support of the purposes 
                        described in paragraph (1);
                            ``(ii) providing recommendations with 
                        respect to--
                                    ``(I) increasing capacities for 
                                mining, processing, refinement, reuse, 
                                and recycling of critical minerals in 
                                the United States to facilitate the 
                                environmentally responsible production 
                                of domestic resources to meet national 
                                critical mineral needs, in consultation 
                                with Tribal and local communities;
                                    ``(II) identifying how statutes, 
                                regulations, and policies related to 
                                the critical mineral supply chain, such 
                                as stockpiling and development finance, 
                                could be modified to accelerate 
                                environmentally responsible domestic 
                                and international production of 
                                critical minerals, in consultation with 
                                Indian Tribes and local communities;
                                    ``(III) strengthening the domestic 
                                workforce to support growing critical 
                                mineral supply chains with good-paying, 
                                safe jobs in the United States;
                                    ``(IV) identifying alternative 
                                domestic and global sources to critical 
                                minerals that the United States 
                                currently relies on the People's 
                                Republic of China or other covered 
                                countries for mining, processing, 
                                refining, and recycling, including the 
                                availability, cost, and quality of 
                                those domestic alternatives;
                                    ``(V) identifying critical minerals 
                                and critical mineral supply chains that 
                                the United States can onshore, at a 
                                competitive availability, cost, and 
                                quality, for those minerals and supply 
                                chains that the United States relies on 
                                the People's Republic of China or other 
                                covered countries to provide;
                                    ``(VI) opportunities for the 
                                Federal Government, Indian Tribes, and 
                                State, local, and territorial 
                                governments to mitigate risks to the 
                                national security of the United States 
                                with respect to supply chains for 
                                critical minerals that the United 
                                States currently relies on the People's 
                                Republic of China or other covered 
                                countries for mining, processing, 
                                refining, and recycling; and
                                    ``(VII) evaluating and integrating 
                                the recommendations of the Critical 
                                Minerals Subcommittee of the National 
                                Science and Technology Council into the 
                                recommendations of the task force.
                            ``(iii) prioritizing the recommendations in 
                        clause (ii), taking into consideration economic 
                        costs and focusing on the critical mineral 
                        supply chains with vulnerabilities posing the 
                        most significant risks to the national security 
                        of the United States;
                            ``(iv) recommending specific strategies, to 
                        be carried out in coordination with the 
                        Secretary of State and the Secretary of 
                        Commerce, to strengthen international 
                        partnerships in furtherance of critical 
                        minerals supply chain security with 
                        international allies and partners, including a 
                        strategy to collaborate with governments of the 
                        allies and partners described in subparagraph 
                        (B) to develop advanced mining, refining, 
                        separation and processing technologies; and
                            ``(v) other duties, as determined by the 
                        Chair.
                    ``(B) Allies and partners.--The allies and partners 
                referred to subparagraph (A) include--
                            ``(i) countries participating in the 
                        Quadrilateral Security Dialogue;
                            ``(ii) countries that are--
                                    ``(I) signatories to the Abraham 
                                Accords; or
                                    ``(II) participants in the Negev 
                                Forum;
                            ``(iii) countries that are members of the 
                        North Atlantic Treaty Organization; and
                            ``(iv) other countries or multilateral 
                        partnerships the task force determines to be 
                        appropriate.
                    ``(C) Report.--The Chair shall--
                            ``(i) not later than 60 days after the date 
                        of enactment of this subsection, and every 60 
                        days thereafter until the requirements under 
                        subsection (a) are satisfied, brief the 
                        appropriate committees of Congress on the 
                        status of the compliance of the President with 
                        completing the requirements under that 
                        subsection.
                            ``(ii) not later than 2 years after the 
                        date of enactment of this Act, submit to the 
                        appropriate committees of Congress a report, 
                        which shall be submitted in unclassified form, 
                        but may include a classified annex, that 
                        describes any findings, guidelines, and 
                        recommendations created in performing the 
                        duties under subparagraph (A);
                            ``(iii) not later than 120 days after the 
                        date on which the Chair submits the report 
                        under clause (ii), publish that report in the 
                        Federal Register and on the website of the 
                        Office of Management and Budget, except that 
                        the Chair shall redact information from the 
                        report that the Chair determines could pose a 
                        risk to the national security of the United 
                        States by being publicly available; and
                            ``(iv) brief the appropriate committees of 
                        Congress twice per year.
            ``(6) Sunset.--The task force shall terminate on the date 
        that is 90 days after the date on which the task force 
        completes the requirements under paragraph (5)(C).''.
    (b) GAO Study.--
            (1) Definition of critical minerals.--In this subsection, 
        the term ``critical mineral'' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 7002(a) of the Energy Act of 2020 (30 U.S.C. 1606(a)).
            (2) Study required.--The Comptroller General of the United 
        States shall conduct a study examining the Federal and State 
        regulatory landscape related to improving domestic supply 
        chains for critical minerals in the United States.
            (3) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United 
        States shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
        report that describes the results of the study under paragraph 
        (2).

 Subtitle C--Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism Pilot Program 
                              Act of 2023

SEC. 11321. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Customs Trade Partnership 
Against Terrorism Pilot Program Act of 2023'' or the ``CTPAT Pilot 
Program Act of 2023''.

SEC. 11322. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Finance of 
                the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Homeland Security and the 
                Committee on Ways and Means of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) Ctpat.--The term ``CTPAT'' means the Customs Trade 
        Partnership Against Terrorism established under subtitle B of 
        title II of the Security and Accountability for Every Port Act 
        (6 U.S.C. 961 et seq.).

SEC. 11323. PILOT PROGRAM ON PARTICIPATION OF THIRD-PARTY LOGISTICS 
              PROVIDERS IN CTPAT.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
        carry out a pilot program to assess whether allowing entities 
        described in subsection (b) to participate in CTPAT would 
        enhance port security, combat terrorism, prevent supply chain 
        security breaches, or otherwise meet the goals of CTPAT.
            (2) Federal register notice.--Not later than one year after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
        publish in the Federal Register a notice specifying the 
        requirements for the pilot program required by paragraph (1).
    (b) Entities Described.--An entity described in this subsection 
is--
            (1) a non-asset-based third-party logistics provider that--
                    (A) arranges international transportation of 
                freight and is licensed by the Department of 
                Transportation; and
                    (B) meets such other requirements as the Secretary 
                specifies in the Federal Register notice required by 
                subsection (a)(2); or
            (2) an asset-based third-party logistics provider that--
                    (A) facilitates cross border activity and is 
                licensed or bonded by the Federal Maritime Commission, 
                the Transportation Security Administration, U.S. 
                Customs and Border Protection, or the Department of 
                Transportation;
                    (B) manages and executes logistics services using 
                its own warehousing assets and resources on behalf of 
                its customers; and
                    (C) meets such other requirements as the Secretary 
                specifies in the Federal Register notice required by 
                subsection (a)(2).
    (c) Requirements.--In carrying out the pilot program required by 
subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall--
            (1) ensure that--
                    (A) not more than 10 entities described in 
                paragraph (1) of subsection (b) participate in the 
                pilot program; and
                    (B) not more than 10 entities described in 
                paragraph (2) of that subsection participate in the 
                program;
            (2) provide for the participation of those entities on a 
        voluntary basis;
            (3) continue the program for a period of not less than one 
        year after the date on which the Secretary publishes the 
        Federal Register notice required by subsection (a)(2); and
            (4) terminate the pilot program not more than 5 years after 
        that date.
    (d) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the termination 
of the pilot program under subsection (c)(4), the Secretary shall 
submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the 
findings of, and any recommendations arising from, the pilot program 
concerning the participation in CTPAT of entities described in 
subsection (b), including an assessment of participation by those 
entities.

SEC. 11324. REPORT ON EFFECTIVENESS OF CTPAT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
assessing the effectiveness of CTPAT.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) An analysis of--
                    (A) security incidents in the cargo supply chain 
                during the 5-year period preceding submission of the 
                report that involved criminal activity, including drug 
                trafficking, human smuggling, commercial fraud, or 
                terrorist activity; and
                    (B) whether those incidents involved participants 
                in CTPAT or entities not participating in CTPAT.
            (2) An analysis of causes for the suspension or removal of 
        entities from participating in CTPAT as a result of security 
        incidents during that 5-year period.
            (3) An analysis of the number of active CTPAT participants 
        involved in one or more security incidents while maintaining 
        their status as participants.
            (4) Recommendations to the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and 
        Border Protection for improvements to CTPAT to improve 
        prevention of security incidents in the cargo supply chain 
        involving participants in CTPAT.

SEC. 11325. NO ADDITIONAL FUNDS AUTHORIZED.

    No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated for the 
purpose of carrying out this subtitle.

               Subtitle D--Military Spouse Employment Act

SEC. 11331. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Military Spouse Employment 
Act''.

SEC. 11332. APPOINTMENT OF MILITARY SPOUSES.

    Section 3330d of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph 
                (4);
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
            ``(3) The term `remote work' refers to a particular type of 
        telework under which an employee is not expected to report to 
        an officially established agency location on a regular and 
        recurring basis.''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) The term `telework' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 6501.'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``or'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; or''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active 
        duty, or a spouse of a disabled or deceased member of the Armed 
        Forces, to a position in which the spouse will engage in remote 
        work.''; and
            (3) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``subsection (a)(3)'' 
        and inserting ``subsection (a)(4)''.

SEC. 11333. GAO STUDY AND REPORT.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the terms ``agency'' means an agency described in 
        paragraph (1) or (2) of section 901(b) of title 31, United 
        States Code;
            (2) the term ``employee'' means an employee of an agency;
            (3) the term ``remote work'' means a particular type of 
        telework under which an employee is not expected to report to 
        an officially established agency location on a regular and 
        recurring basis; and
            (4) the term ``telework'' means a work flexibility 
        arrangement under which an employee performs the duties and 
        responsibilities of such employee's position, and other 
        authorized activities, from an approved worksite other than the 
        location from which the employee would otherwise work.
    (b) Requirement.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall conduct a study and publish a report regarding the use of remote 
work by agencies, which shall include a discussion of what is known 
regarding--
            (1) the number of employees who are engaging in remote 
        work;
            (2) the role of remote work in agency recruitment and 
        retention efforts;
            (3) the geographic location of employees who engage in 
        remote work;
            (4) the effect that remote work has had on how often 
        employees are reporting to officially established agency 
        locations to perform the duties and responsibilities of the 
        positions of those employees and other authorized activities; 
        and
            (5) how the use of remote work has affected Federal office 
        space utilization and spending.

                  Subtitle E--Designation of Airports

SEC. 11341. DESIGNATION OF ADDITIONAL PORT OF ENTRY FOR THE IMPORTATION 
              AND EXPORTATION OF WILDLIFE AND WILDLIFE PRODUCTS BY THE 
              UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE.

    (a) In General.--Subject to appropriations and in accordance with 
subsection (b), the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife 
Service shall designate 1 additional port as a ``port of entry 
designated for the importation and exportation of wildlife and wildlife 
products'' under section 14.12 of title 50, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    (b) Criteria for Selecting Additional Designated Port.--The 
Director shall select the additional port to be designated pursuant to 
subsection (a) from among the United States airports that handled more 
than 8,000,000,000 pounds of cargo during 2021, as reported by the 
Federal Aviation Administration Air Carrier Activity Information 
System, and based upon the analysis submitted to Congress by the 
Director pursuant to the Wildlife Trafficking reporting directive under 
title I of Senate Report 114-281.

    DIVISION M--INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2024

SEC. 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This division may be cited as the ``Intelligence 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this division is 
as follows:

    DIVISION M--INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2024

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
                    TITLE I--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 102. Classified Schedule of Authorizations.
Sec. 103. Intelligence Community Management Account.
Sec. 104. Increase in employee compensation and benefits authorized by 
                            law.
 TITLE II--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.
               TITLE III--INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MATTERS

           Subtitle A--General Intelligence Community Matters

Sec. 301. Plan to recruit, train, and retain personnel with experience 
                            in financial intelligence and emerging 
                            technologies.
Sec. 302. Policy and performance framework for mobility of intelligence 
                            community workforce.
Sec. 303. In-State tuition rates for active duty members of the 
                            intelligence community.
Sec. 304. Standards, criteria, and guidance for counterintelligence 
                            vulnerability assessments and surveys.
Sec. 305. Improving administration of certain post-employment 
                            restrictions for intelligence community.
Sec. 306. Mission of the National Counterintelligence and Security 
                            Center.
Sec. 307. Prohibition relating to transport of individuals detained at 
                            United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
                            Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 308. Department of Energy science and technology risk assessments.
Sec. 309. Congressional oversight of intelligence community risk 
                            assessments.
Sec. 310. Inspector General review of dissemination by Federal Bureau 
                            of Investigation Richmond, Virginia, field 
                            office of certain document.
Sec. 311. Office of Intelligence and Analysis.
                Subtitle B--Central Intelligence Agency

Sec. 321. Change to penalties and increased availability of mental 
                            health treatment for unlawful conduct on 
                            Central Intelligence Agency installations.
Sec. 322. Modifications to procurement authorities of the Central 
                            Intelligence Agency.
Sec. 323. Establishment of Central Intelligence Agency standard 
                            workplace sexual misconduct complaint 
                            investigation procedure.
             TITLE IV--MATTERS CONCERNING FOREIGN COUNTRIES

                 Subtitle A--People's Republic of China

Sec. 401. Intelligence community coordinator for accountability of 
                            atrocities of the People's Republic of 
                            China.
Sec. 402. Interagency working group and report on the malign efforts of 
                            the People's Republic of China in Africa.
Sec. 403. Amendment to requirement for annual assessment by 
                            intelligence community working group for 
                            monitoring the economic and technological 
                            capabilities of the People's Republic of 
                            China.
Sec. 404. Assessments of reciprocity in the relationship between the 
                            United States and the People's Republic of 
                            China.
Sec. 405. Annual briefing on intelligence community efforts to identify 
                            and mitigate Chinese Communist Party and 
                            Russian foreign malign influence operations 
                            against the United States.
Sec. 406. Assessment of threat posed to United States ports by cranes 
                            manufactured by countries of concern.
                  Subtitle B--Other Foreign Countries

Sec. 411. Report on efforts to capture and detain United States 
                            citizens as hostages.
Sec. 412. Sense of Congress on priority of fentanyl in National 
                            Intelligence Priorities Framework.
  TITLE V--MATTERS PERTAINING TO UNITED STATES ECONOMIC AND EMERGING 
         TECHNOLOGY COMPETITION WITH UNITED STATES ADVERSARIES

                      Subtitle A--General Matters

Sec. 501. Assignment of detailees from intelligence community to 
                            Department of Commerce.
   Subtitle B--Next-generation Energy, Biotechnology, and Artificial 
                              Intelligence

Sec. 511. Expanded annual assessment of economic and technological 
                            capabilities of the People's Republic of 
                            China.
Sec. 512. Assessment of using civil nuclear energy for intelligence 
                            community capabilities.
Sec. 513. Policies established by Director of National Intelligence for 
                            artificial intelligence capabilities.
                    TITLE VI--WHISTLEBLOWER MATTERS

Sec. 601. Submittal to Congress of complaints and information by 
                            whistleblowers in the intelligence 
                            community.
Sec. 602. Prohibition against disclosure of whistleblower identity as 
                            reprisal against whistleblower disclosure 
                            by employees and contractors in 
                            intelligence community.
Sec. 603. Establishing process parity for adverse security clearance 
                            and access determinations.
Sec. 604. Elimination of cap on compensatory damages for retaliatory 
                            revocation of security clearances and 
                            access determinations.
Sec. 605. Modification and repeal of reporting requirements.
                    TITLE VII--CLASSIFICATION REFORM

             Subtitle A--Classification Reform Act of 2023

Sec. 701. Short title.
Sec. 702. Definitions.
Sec. 703. Classification and declassification of information.
Sec. 704. Transparency officers.
            Subtitle B--Sensible Classification Act of 2023

Sec. 711. Short title.
Sec. 712. Definitions.
Sec. 713. Findings and sense of the Senate.
Sec. 714. Classification authority.
Sec. 715. Promoting efficient declassification review.
Sec. 716. Training to promote sensible classification.
Sec. 717. Improvements to Public Interest Declassification Board.
Sec. 718. Implementation of technology for classification and 
                            declassification.
Sec. 719. Studies and recommendations on necessity of security 
                            clearances.
          TITLE VIII--SECURITY CLEARANCE AND TRUSTED WORKFORCE

Sec. 801. Review of shared information technology services for 
                            personnel vetting.
Sec. 802. Timeliness standard for rendering determinations of trust for 
                            personnel vetting.
Sec. 803. Annual report on personnel vetting trust determinations.
Sec. 804. Survey to assess strengths and weaknesses of Trusted 
                            Workforce 2.0.
Sec. 805. Prohibition on denial of eligibility for access to classified 
                            information solely because of past use of 
                            cannabis.
                  TITLE IX--ANOMALOUS HEALTH INCIDENTS

Sec. 901. Improved funding flexibility for payments made by the Central 
                            Intelligence Agency for qualifying injuries 
                            to the brain.
Sec. 902. Clarification of requirements to seek certain benefits 
                            relating to injuries to the brain.
Sec. 903. Intelligence community implementation of HAVANA Act of 2021 
                            authorities.
Sec. 904. Report and briefing on Central Intelligence Agency handling 
                            of anomalous health incidents.
                       TITLE X--ELECTION SECURITY

Sec. 1001. Strengthening Election Cybersecurity to Uphold Respect for 
                            Elections through Independent Testing Act 
                            of 2023.
                        TITLE XI--OTHER MATTERS

Sec. 1101. Modification of reporting requirement for All-domain Anomaly 
                            Resolution Office.
Sec. 1102. Funding limitations relating to unidentified anomalous 
                            phenomena.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Congressional intelligence committees.--The term 
        ``congressional intelligence committees'' has the meaning given 
        such term in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
        U.S.C. 3003).
            (2) Intelligence community.--The term ``intelligence 
        community'' has the meaning given such term in such section.

                    TITLE I--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2024 
for the conduct of the intelligence and intelligence-related activities 
of the Federal Government.

SEC. 102. CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE OF AUTHORIZATIONS.

    (a) Specifications of Amounts.--The amounts authorized to be 
appropriated under section 101 for the conduct of the intelligence 
activities of the Federal Government are those specified in the 
classified Schedule of Authorizations prepared to accompany this 
division.
    (b) Availability of Classified Schedule of Authorizations.--
            (1) Availability.--The classified Schedule of 
        Authorizations referred to in subsection (a) shall be made 
        available to the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, the 
        Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, 
        and to the President.
            (2) Distribution by the president.--Subject to paragraph 
        (3), the President shall provide for suitable distribution of 
        the classified Schedule of Authorizations referred to in 
        subsection (a), or of appropriate portions of such Schedule, 
        within the executive branch of the Federal Government.
            (3) Limits on disclosure.--The President shall not publicly 
        disclose the classified Schedule of Authorizations or any 
        portion of such Schedule except--
                    (A) as provided in section 601(a) of the 
                Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act 
                of 2007 (50 U.S.C. 3306(a));
                    (B) to the extent necessary to implement the 
                budget; or
                    (C) as otherwise required by law.

SEC. 103. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT ACCOUNT.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated for the Intelligence Community Management Account of the 
Director of National Intelligence for fiscal year 2024 the sum of 
$658,950,000.
    (b) Classified Authorization of Appropriations.--In addition to 
amounts authorized to be appropriated for the Intelligence Community 
Management Account by subsection (a), there are authorized to be 
appropriated for the Intelligence Community Management Account for 
fiscal year 2024 such additional amounts as are specified in the 
classified Schedule of Authorizations referred to in section 102(a).

SEC. 104. INCREASE IN EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS AUTHORIZED BY 
              LAW.

    Appropriations authorized by this division for salary, pay, 
retirement, and other benefits for Federal employees may be increased 
by such additional or supplemental amounts as may be necessary for 
increases in such compensation or benefits authorized by law.

 TITLE II--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated for the Central Intelligence 
Agency Retirement and Disability Fund $514,000,000 for fiscal year 
2024.

               TITLE III--INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MATTERS

           Subtitle A--General Intelligence Community Matters

SEC. 301. PLAN TO RECRUIT, TRAIN, AND RETAIN PERSONNEL WITH EXPERIENCE 
              IN FINANCIAL INTELLIGENCE AND EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
coordination with the heads of human capital of the Central 
Intelligence Agency, the National Security Agency, and the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation, shall submit to the congressional intelligence 
committees, the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, and the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a plan for 
the intelligence community to recruit, train, and retain personnel who 
have skills and experience in financial intelligence and emerging 
technologies in order to improve analytic tradecraft.
    (b) Elements.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following elements:
            (1) An assessment, including measurable benchmarks of 
        progress, of current initiatives of the intelligence community 
        to recruit, train, and retain personnel who have skills and 
        experience in financial intelligence and emerging technologies.
            (2) An assessment of whether personnel in the intelligence 
        community who have such skills are currently well integrated 
        into the analytical cadre of the relevant elements of the 
        intelligence community that produce analyses with respect to 
        financial intelligence and emerging technologies.
            (3) An identification of challenges to hiring or 
        compensation in the intelligence community that limit progress 
        toward rapidly increasing the number of personnel with such 
        skills, and an identification of hiring or other reforms to 
        resolve such challenges.
            (4) A determination of whether the National Intelligence 
        University has the resources and expertise necessary to train 
        existing personnel in financial intelligence and emerging 
        technologies.
            (5) A strategy, including measurable benchmarks of 
        progress, to, by January 1, 2025, increase by 10 percent the 
        analytical cadre of personnel with expertise and previous 
        employment in financial intelligence and emerging technologies.

SEC. 302. POLICY AND PERFORMANCE FRAMEWORK FOR MOBILITY OF INTELLIGENCE 
              COMMUNITY WORKFORCE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall, in 
coordination with the Secretary of Defense and the Director of the 
Office of Personnel Management as the Director of National Intelligence 
considers appropriate, develop and implement a policy and performance 
framework to ensure the timely and effective mobility of employees and 
contractors of the Federal Government who are transferring employment 
between elements of the intelligence community.
    (b) Elements.--The policy and performance framework required by 
subsection (a) shall include processes with respect to the following:
            (1) Human resources.
            (2) Medical reviews.
            (3) Determinations of suitability or eligibility for access 
        to classified information in accordance with Executive Order 
        13467 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to reforming processes 
        related to suitability for Government employment, fitness for 
        contractor employees, and eligibility for access to classified 
        national security information).

SEC. 303. IN-STATE TUITION RATES FOR ACTIVE DUTY MEMBERS OF THE 
              INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.

    (a) In General.--Section 135(d) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 
(20 U.S.C. 1015d(d)), as amended by section 6206(a)(4) of the Foreign 
Service Families Act of 2021 (Public Law 117-81), is further amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``or'' after the 
        semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) a member of the intelligence community (as defined in 
        section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
        3003)) (other than a member of the Armed Forces of the United 
        States) who is on active duty for a period of more than 30 
        days.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect at each public institution of higher education in a State 
that receives assistance under the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
U.S.C. 1001 et seq.) for the first period of enrollment at such 
institution that begins after July 1, 2026.

SEC. 304. STANDARDS, CRITERIA, AND GUIDANCE FOR COUNTERINTELLIGENCE 
              VULNERABILITY ASSESSMENTS AND SURVEYS.

    Section 904(d)(7)(A) of the Counterintelligence Enhancement Act of 
2002 (50 U.S.C. 3383(d)(7)(A)) is amended to read as follows:
                    ``(A) Counterintelligence vulnerability assessments 
                and surveys.--To develop standards, criteria, and 
                guidance for counterintelligence risk assessments and 
                surveys of the vulnerability of the United States to 
                intelligence threats, including with respect to 
                critical infrastructure and critical technologies, in 
                order to identify the areas, programs, and activities 
                that require protection from such threats.''.

SEC. 305. IMPROVING ADMINISTRATION OF CERTAIN POST-EMPLOYMENT 
              RESTRICTIONS FOR INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.

    Section 304 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3073a) 
is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)(1)--
                    (A) by striking ``A former'' and inserting the 
                following:
                    ``(A) In general.--A former''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) Prior disclosure to director of national 
                intelligence.--
                            ``(i) In general.--In the case of a former 
                        employee who occupies a covered post-service 
                        position in violation of subsection (a), 
                        whether the former employee voluntarily 
                        notified the Director of National Intelligence 
                        of the intent of the former employee to occupy 
                        such covered post-service position before 
                        occupying such post-service position may be 
                        used in determining whether the violation was 
                        knowing and willful for purposes of 
                        subparagraph (A).
                            ``(ii) Procedures and guidance.--The 
                        Director of National Intelligence may establish 
                        procedures and guidance relating to the 
                        submittal of notice for purposes of clause 
                        (i).''; and
            (2) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``the 
                restrictions under subsection (a) and'' before ``the 
                report requirements'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``ceases to 
                occupy'' and inserting ``occupies''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (3)(B), by striking ``before the 
                person ceases to occupy a covered intelligence 
                position'' and inserting ``when the person occupies a 
                covered intelligence position''.

SEC. 306. MISSION OF THE NATIONAL COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY 
              CENTER.

    (a) In General.--Section 904 of the Counterintelligence Enhancement 
Act of 2002 (50 U.S.C. 3383) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (d) through (i) as 
        subsections (e) through (j), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
    ``(d) Mission.--The mission of the National Counterintelligence and 
Security Center shall include organizing and leading strategic planning 
for counterintelligence activities of the United States Government by 
integrating instruments of national power as needed to counter foreign 
intelligence activities.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Counterintelligence enhancement act of 2002.--Section 
        904 of the Counterintelligence Enhancement Act of 2002 (50 
        U.S.C. 3383) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (e), as redesignated by 
                subsection (a)(1), by striking ``Subject to subsection 
                (e)'' both places it appears and inserting ``Subject to 
                subsection (f)''; and
                    (B) in subsection (f), as so redesignated--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking 
                        ``subsection (d)(1)'' and inserting 
                        ``subsection (e)(1)''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking 
                        ``subsection (d)(2)'' and inserting 
                        ``subsection (e)(2)''.
            (2) Counterintelligence and security enhancements act of 
        1994.--Section 811(d)(1)(B)(ii) of the Counterintelligence and 
        Security Enhancements Act of 1994 (50 U.S.C. 3381(d)(1)(B)(ii)) 
        is amended by striking ``section 904(d)(2) of that Act (50 
        U.S.C. 3383(d)(2))'' and inserting ``section 904(e)(2) of that 
        Act (50 U.S.C. 3383(e)(2))''.

SEC. 307. PROHIBITION RELATING TO TRANSPORT OF INDIVIDUALS DETAINED AT 
              UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA.

    (a) Definition of Individual Detained at Guantanamo.--In this 
section, the term ``individual detained at Guantanamo'' has the meaning 
given that term in section 1034(f)(2) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 
971; 10 U.S.C. 801 note).
    (b) Prohibition on Chartering Private or Commercial Aircraft to 
Transport Individuals Detained at United States Naval Station, 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.--No head of an element of the intelligence 
community may charter any private or commercial aircraft to transport 
an individual who is or was an individual detained at Guantanamo.

SEC. 308. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY RISK ASSESSMENTS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Country of risk.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``country of risk'' means 
                a foreign country determined by the Secretary, in 
                accordance with subparagraph (B), to present a risk of 
                theft of United States intellectual property or a 
                threat to the national security of the United States if 
                nationals of the country, or entities owned or 
                controlled by the country or nationals of the country, 
                participate in any research, development, 
                demonstration, or deployment activity authorized under 
                this Act or an amendment made by this Act.
                    (B) Determination.--In making a determination under 
                subparagraph (A), the Secretary, in coordination with 
                the Director of the Office of Intelligence and 
                Counterintelligence, shall take into consideration--
                            (i) the most recent World Wide Threat 
                        Assessment of the United States Intelligence 
                        Community, prepared by the Director of National 
                        Intelligence; and
                            (ii) the most recent National 
                        Counterintelligence Strategy of the United 
                        States.
            (2) Covered support.--The term ``covered support'' means 
        any grant, contract, subcontract, award, loan, program, 
        support, or other activity authorized under this Act or an 
        amendment made by this Act.
            (3) Entity of concern.--The term ``entity of concern'' 
        means any entity, including a national, that is--
                    (A) identified under section 1237(b) of the Strom 
                Thurmond National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
                Year 1999 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; Public Law 105-261);
                    (B) identified under section 1260H of the William 
                M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act 
                for Fiscal Year 2021 (10 U.S.C. 113 note; Public Law 
                116-283);
                    (C) on the Entity List maintained by the Bureau of 
                Industry and Security of the Department of Commerce and 
                set forth in Supplement No. 4 to part 744 of title 15, 
                Code of Federal Regulations;
                    (D) included in the list required by section 
                9(b)(3) of the Uyghur Human Rights Policy Act of 2020 
                (Public Law 116-145; 134 Stat. 656); or
                    (E) identified by the Secretary, in coordination 
                with the Director of the Office of Intelligence and 
                Counterintelligence and the applicable office that 
                would provide, or is providing, covered support, as 
                posing an unmanageable threat--
                            (i) to the national security of the United 
                        States; or
                            (ii) of theft or loss of United States 
                        intellectual property.
            (4) National.--The term ``national'' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act 
        (8 U.S.C. 1101).
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.
    (b) Science and Technology Risk Assessment.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall develop and maintain 
        tools and processes to manage and mitigate research security 
        risks, such as a science and technology risk matrix, informed 
        by threats identified by the Director of the Office of 
        Intelligence and Counterintelligence, to facilitate 
        determinations of the risk of loss of United States 
        intellectual property or threat to the national security of the 
        United States posed by activities carried out under any covered 
        support.
            (2) Content and implementation.--In developing and using 
        the tools and processes developed under paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary shall--
                    (A) deploy risk-based approaches to evaluating, 
                awarding, and managing certain research, development, 
                demonstration, and deployment activities, including 
                designations that will indicate the relative risk of 
                activities;
                    (B) assess, to the extent practicable, ongoing 
                high-risk activities;
                    (C) designate an officer or employee of the 
                Department of Energy to be responsible for tracking and 
                notifying recipients of any covered support of 
                unmanageable threats to United States national security 
                or of theft or loss of United States intellectual 
                property posed by an entity of concern;
                    (D) consider requiring recipients of covered 
                support to implement additional research security 
                mitigations for higher-risk activities if appropriate; 
                and
                    (E) support the development of research security 
                training for recipients of covered support on the risks 
                posed by entities of concern.
            (3) Annual updates.--The tools and processes developed 
        under paragraph (1) shall be evaluated annually and updated as 
        needed, with threat-informed input from the Office of 
        Intelligence and Counterintelligence, to reflect changes in the 
        risk designation under paragraph (2)(A) of research, 
        development, demonstration, and deployment activities conducted 
        by the Department of Energy.
    (c) Entity of Concern.--
            (1) Prohibition.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), no 
        entity of concern, or individual that owns or controls, is 
        owned or controlled by, or is under common ownership or control 
        with an entity of concern, may receive, or perform work under, 
        any covered support.
            (2) Waiver of prohibition.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary may waive the 
                prohibition under paragraph (1) if determined by the 
                Secretary to be in the national interest.
                    (B) Notification to congress.--Not less than 2 
                weeks prior to issuing a waiver under subparagraph (A), 
                the Secretary shall notify Congress of the intent to 
                issue the waiver, including a justification for the 
                waiver.
            (3) Penalty.--
                    (A) Termination of support.--On finding that any 
                entity of concern or individual described in paragraph 
                (1) has received covered support and has not received a 
                waiver under paragraph (2), the Secretary shall 
                terminate all covered support to that entity of concern 
                or individual, as applicable.
                    (B) Penalties.--An entity of concern or individual 
                identified under subparagraph (A) shall be--
                            (i) prohibited from receiving or 
                        participating in covered support for a period 
                        of not less than 1 year but not more than 10 
                        years, as determined by the Secretary; or
                            (ii) instead of the penalty described in 
                        clause (i), subject to any other penalties 
                        authorized under applicable law or regulations 
                        that the Secretary determines to be in the 
                        national interest.
                    (C) Notification to congress.--Prior to imposing a 
                penalty under subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall 
                notify Congress of the intent to impose the penalty, 
                including a description of and justification for the 
                penalty.
            (4) Coordination.--The Secretary shall--
                    (A) share information about the unmanageable 
                threats described in subsection (a)(3)(E) with other 
                Federal agencies; and
                    (B) develop consistent approaches to identifying 
                entities of concern.
    (d) International Agreements.--This section shall be applied in a 
manner consistent with the obligations of the United States under 
international agreements.
    (e) Report Required.--Not later than 240 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report 
that--
            (1) describes--
                    (A) the tools and processes developed under 
                subsection (b)(1) and any updates to those tools and 
                processes; and
                    (B) if applicable, the science and technology risk 
                matrix developed under that subsection and how that 
                matrix has been applied;
            (2) includes a mitigation plan for managing risks posed by 
        countries of risk with respect to future or ongoing research 
        and development activities of the Department of Energy; and
            (3) defines critical research areas, designated by risk, as 
        determined by the Secretary.

SEC. 309. CONGRESSIONAL OVERSIGHT OF INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY RISK 
              ASSESSMENTS.

    (a) Risk Assessment Documents and Materials.--Except as provided in 
subsection (b), whenever an element of the intelligence community 
conducts a risk assessment arising from the mishandling or improper 
disclosure of classified information, the Director of National 
Intelligence shall, not later than 30 days after the date of the 
commencement of such risk assessment--
            (1) submit to the congressional intelligence committees 
        copies of such documents and materials as are--
                    (A) within the jurisdiction of such committees; and
                    (B) subject to the risk assessment; and
            (2) provide such committees a briefing on such documents, 
        materials, and risk assessment.
    (b) Exception.--If the Director determines, with respect to a risk 
assessment described in subsection (a), that the documents and other 
materials otherwise subject to paragraph (1) of such subsection (a) are 
of such a volume that submittal pursuant to such paragraph would be 
impracticable, the Director shall--
            (1) in lieu of submitting copies of such documents and 
        materials, submit a log of such documents and materials; and
            (2) pursuant to a request by the Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the Senate or the Permanent Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the House of Representatives for a copy of a 
        document or material included in such log, submit to such 
        committee such copy.

SEC. 310. INSPECTOR GENERAL REVIEW OF DISSEMINATION BY FEDERAL BUREAU 
              OF INVESTIGATION RICHMOND, VIRGINIA, FIELD OFFICE OF 
              CERTAIN DOCUMENT.

    (a) Review Required.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the Department of 
Justice shall conduct a review of the actions and events, including any 
underlying policy direction, that served as a basis for the January 23, 
2023, dissemination by the field office of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation located in Richmond, Virginia, of a document titled 
``Interest of Racially or Ethnically Motivated Violent Extremists in 
Radical-Traditionalist Catholic Ideology Almost Certainly Presents New 
Mitigation Opportunities.''.
    (b) Submittal to Congress.--The Inspector General of the Department 
of Justice shall submit the findings of the Inspector General with 
respect to the review required by subsection (a) to the following:
            (1) The congressional intelligence committees.
            (2) The Committee on the Judiciary, Committee on Homeland 
        Security and Governmental Affairs, and the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the Senate.
            (3) The Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on 
        Oversight and Accountability, and the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 311. OFFICE OF INTELLIGENCE AND ANALYSIS.

    Section 201 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 121) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(h) Prohibition.--
            ``(1) Definition.--In this subsection, the term `United 
        States person' means a United States citizen, an alien known by 
        the Office of Intelligence and Analysis to be a permanent 
        resident alien, an unincorporated association substantially 
        composed of United States citizens or permanent resident 
        aliens, or a corporation incorporated in the United States, 
        except for a corporation directed and controlled by 1 or more 
        foreign governments.
            ``(2) Collection of information from united states 
        persons.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Notwithstanding any other 
                provision of law, the Office of Intelligence and 
                Analysis may not engage in the collection of 
                information or intelligence targeting any United States 
                person except as provided in subparagraph (B).
                    ``(B) Exception.--Subparagraph (A) shall not apply 
                to any employee, officer, or contractor of the Office 
                of Intelligence and Analysis who is responsible for 
                collecting information from individuals working for a 
                State, local, or Tribal territory government or a 
                private employer.''.

                Subtitle B--Central Intelligence Agency

SEC. 321. CHANGE TO PENALTIES AND INCREASED AVAILABILITY OF MENTAL 
              HEALTH TREATMENT FOR UNLAWFUL CONDUCT ON CENTRAL 
              INTELLIGENCE AGENCY INSTALLATIONS.

    Section 15(b) of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 
U.S.C. 3515(b)) is amended, in the second sentence, by striking ``those 
specified in section 1315(c)(2) of title 40, United States Code'' and 
inserting ``the maximum penalty authorized for a Class B misdemeanor 
under section 3559 of title 18, United States Code''.

SEC. 322. MODIFICATIONS TO PROCUREMENT AUTHORITIES OF THE CENTRAL 
              INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

    Section 3 of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 
3503) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``sections'' and all 
        that follows through ``session)'' and inserting ``sections 
        3201, 3203, 3204, 3206, 3207, 3302 through 3306, 3321 through 
        3323, 3801 through 3808, 3069, 3134, 3841, and 4752 of title 
        10, United States Code'' and
            (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``in paragraphs'' and 
        all that follows through ``1947'' and inserting ``in sections 
        3201 through 3204 of title 10, United States Code, shall not be 
        delegable. Each determination or decision required by sections 
        3201 through 3204, 3321 through 3323, and 3841 of title 10, 
        United States Code''.

SEC. 323. ESTABLISHMENT OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY STANDARD 
              WORKPLACE SEXUAL MISCONDUCT COMPLAINT INVESTIGATION 
              PROCEDURE.

    (a) Workplace Sexual Misconduct Defined.--The term ``workplace 
sexual misconduct''--
            (1) means unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual 
        favors, and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature 
        when--
                    (A) submission to such conduct is made either 
                explicitly or implicitly a term or condition of an 
                individual's employment;
                    (B) submission to or rejection of such conduct by 
                an individual is used as the basis for employment 
                decisions affecting such individual; or
                    (C) such conduct has the purpose or effect of 
                unreasonably interfering with an individual's work 
                performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or 
                offensive working environment; and
            (2) includes sexual harassment and sexual assault.
    (b) Standard Complaint Investigation Procedure.--Not later than 90 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the 
Central Intelligence Agency shall--
            (1) establish a standard workplace sexual misconduct 
        complaint investigation procedure;
            (2) implement the standard workplace sexual misconduct 
        complaint investigation procedure through clear workforce 
        communication and education on the procedure; and
            (3) submit the standard workplace sexual misconduct 
        complaint investigation procedure to the congressional 
        intelligence committees.
    (c) Minimum Requirements.--The procedure established pursuant to 
subsection (b)(1) shall, at a minimum--
            (1) identify the individuals and offices of the Central 
        Intelligence Agency to which an employee of the Agency may 
        bring a complaint of workplace sexual misconduct;
            (2) detail the steps each individual or office identified 
        pursuant to paragraph (1) shall take upon receipt of a 
        complaint of workplace sexual misconduct and the timeframes 
        within which those steps shall be taken, including--
                    (A) documentation of the complaint;
                    (B) referral or notification to another individual 
                or office;
                    (C) measures to document or preserve witness 
                statements or other evidence; and
                    (D) preliminary investigation of the complaint;
            (3) set forth standard criteria for determining whether a 
        complaint of workplace sexual misconduct will be referred to 
        law enforcement and the timeframe within which such a referral 
        shall occur; and
            (4) for any complaint not referred to law enforcement, set 
        forth standard criteria for determining--
                    (A) whether a complaint has been substantiated; and
                    (B) for any substantiated complaint, the 
                appropriate disciplinary action.
    (d) Annual Reports.--On or before April 30 of each year, the 
Director shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees, the 
Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of the 
Senate, and the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives an annual report that 
includes, for the preceding calendar year, the following:
            (1) The number of workplace sexual misconduct complaints 
        brought to each individual or office of the Central 
        Intelligence Agency identified pursuant to subsection (c)(1), 
        disaggregated by--
                    (A) complaints referred to law enforcement; and
                    (B) complaints substantiated.
            (2) For each complaint described in paragraph (1) that is 
        substantiated, a description of the disciplinary action taken 
        by the Director.

             TITLE IV--MATTERS CONCERNING FOREIGN COUNTRIES

                 Subtitle A--People's Republic of China

SEC. 401. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY COORDINATOR FOR ACCOUNTABILITY OF 
              ATROCITIES OF THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Atrocity.--The term ``atrocity'' means a crime against 
        humanity, genocide, or a war crime.
            (2) Foreign person.--The term ``foreign person'' means--
                    (A) any person or entity that is not a United 
                States person; or
                    (B) any entity not organized under the laws of the 
                United States or of any jurisdiction within the United 
                States.
            (3) United states person.--The term ``United States 
        person'' has the meaning given that term in section 105A(c) of 
        the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3039).
    (b) Intelligence Community Coordinator for Accountability of 
Atrocities of the People's Republic of China.--
            (1) Designation.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Director of National 
        Intelligence shall designate a senior official of the Office of 
        the Director of National Intelligence to serve as the 
        intelligence community coordinator for accountability of 
        atrocities of the People's Republic of China (in this section 
        referred to as the ``Coordinator'').
            (2) Duties.--The Coordinator shall lead the efforts of and 
        coordinate and collaborate with the intelligence community with 
        respect to the following:
                    (A) Identifying and addressing any gaps in 
                intelligence collection relating to atrocities of the 
                People's Republic of China, including by recommending 
                the modification of the priorities of the intelligence 
                community with respect to intelligence collection and 
                by utilizing informal processes and collaborative 
                mechanisms with key elements of the intelligence 
                community to increase collection on atrocities of the 
                People's Republic of China.
                    (B) Prioritizing and expanding the intelligence 
                analysis with respect to ongoing atrocities of the 
                People's Republic of China and disseminating within the 
                United States Government intelligence relating to the 
                identification and activities of foreign persons 
                suspected of being involved with or providing support 
                to atrocities of the People's Republic of China, 
                including genocide and forced labor practices in 
                Xinjiang, in order to support the efforts of other 
                Federal agencies, including the Department of State, 
                the Department of Justice, the Department of the 
                Treasury, the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the 
                Department of Commerce, the Bureau of Industry and 
                Security, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and the 
                National Security Council, to hold the People's 
                Republic of China accountable for such atrocities.
                    (C) Increasing efforts to declassify and share with 
                the people of the United States and the international 
                community information regarding atrocities of the 
                People's Republic of China in order to expose such 
                atrocities and counter the disinformation and 
                misinformation campaign by the People's Republic of 
                China to deny such atrocities.
                    (D) Documenting and storing intelligence and other 
                unclassified information that may be relevant to 
                preserve as evidence of atrocities of the People's 
                Republic of China for future accountability, and 
                ensuring that other relevant Federal agencies receive 
                appropriate support from the intelligence community 
                with respect to the collection, analysis, preservation, 
                and, as appropriate, dissemination, of intelligence 
                related to atrocities of the People's Republic of 
                China, which may include the information from the 
                annual report required by section 6504 of the 
                Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 
                (Public Law 117-263).
                    (E) Sharing information with the Forced Labor 
                Enforcement Task Force, established under section 741 
                of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement 
                Implementation Act (19 U.S.C. 4681), the Department of 
                Commerce, and the Department of the Treasury for the 
                purposes of entity listings and sanctions.
            (3) Plan required.--Not later than 120 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress--
                    (A) the name of the official designated as the 
                Coordinator pursuant to paragraph (1); and
                    (B) the strategy of the intelligence community for 
                the collection and dissemination of intelligence 
                relating to ongoing atrocities of the People's Republic 
                of China, including a detailed description of how the 
                Coordinator shall support, and assist in facilitating 
                the implementation of, such strategy.
            (4) Annual report to congress.--
                    (A) Reports required.--Not later than May 1, 2024, 
                and annually thereafter until May 1, 2034, the Director 
                shall submit to Congress a report detailing, for the 
                year covered by the report--
                            (i) the analytical findings, changes in 
                        collection, and other activities of the 
                        intelligence community with respect to ongoing 
                        atrocities of the People's Republic of China;
                            (ii) the recipients of information shared 
                        pursuant to this section for the purpose of--
                                    (I) providing support to Federal 
                                agencies to hold the People's Republic 
                                of China accountable for such 
                                atrocities; and
                                    (II) sharing information with the 
                                people of the United States to counter 
                                the disinformation and misinformation 
                                campaign by the People's Republic of 
                                China to deny such atrocities; and
                            (iii) with respect to clause (ii), the date 
                        of any such sharing.
                    (B) Form.--Each report submitted under subparagraph 
                (A) may be submitted in classified form, consistent 
                with the protection of intelligence sources and 
                methods.
    (c) Sunset.--This section shall cease to have effect on the date 
that is 10 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 402. INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP AND REPORT ON THE MALIGN EFFORTS OF 
              THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA IN AFRICA.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--The Director of National Intelligence, in 
        consultation with such heads of elements of the intelligence 
        community as the Director considers appropriate, shall 
        establish an interagency working group within the intelligence 
        community to analyze the tactics and capabilities of the 
        People's Republic of China in Africa.
            (2) Establishment flexibility.--The working group 
        established under paragraph (1) may be--
                    (A) independently established; or
                    (B) to avoid redundancy, incorporated into existing 
                working groups or cross-intelligence efforts within the 
                intelligence community.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) Definition of appropriate committees of congress.--In 
        this subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of 
        Congress'' means--
                    (A) the congressional intelligence committees;
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the 
                Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on 
                Appropriations of the Senate; and
                    (C) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the 
                Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on 
                Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
            (2) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and twice annually thereafter, the 
        working group established under subsection (a) shall submit to 
        the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the specific 
        tactics and capabilities of the People's Republic of China in 
        Africa.
            (3) Elements.--Each report required by paragraph (2) shall 
        include the following elements:
                    (A) An assessment of efforts by the Government of 
                the People's Republic of China to exploit mining and 
                reprocessing operations in Africa.
                    (B) An assessment of efforts by the Government of 
                the People's Republic of China to provide or fund 
                technologies in Africa, including--
                            (i) telecommunications and energy 
                        technologies, such as advanced reactors, 
                        transportation, and other commercial products; 
                        and
                            (ii) by requiring that the People's 
                        Republic of China be the sole provider of such 
                        technologies.
                    (C) An assessment of efforts by the Government of 
                the People's Republic of China to expand intelligence 
                capabilities in Africa.
                    (D) A description of actions taken by the 
                intelligence community to counter such efforts.
                    (E) An assessment of additional resources needed by 
                the intelligence community to better counter such 
                efforts.
            (4) Form.--Each report required by paragraph (2) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex if necessary.
    (c) Sunset.--The requirements of this section shall terminate on 
the date that is 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 403. AMENDMENT TO REQUIREMENT FOR ANNUAL ASSESSMENT BY 
              INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY WORKING GROUP FOR MONITORING THE 
              ECONOMIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL CAPABILITIES OF THE PEOPLE'S 
              REPUBLIC OF CHINA.

    Section 6503(c)(3)(D) of the Intelligence Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2023 (division F of Public Law 117-263) is amended by 
striking ``the top 200'' and inserting ``all the known''.

SEC. 404. ASSESSMENTS OF RECIPROCITY IN THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE 
              UNITED STATES AND THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary of State for 
Intelligence and Research, in consultation with the Director of 
National Intelligence and such other heads of elements of the 
intelligence community as the Assistant Secretary considers relevant, 
shall submit to Congress the following:
            (1) A comprehensive assessment that identifies critical 
        areas in the security, diplomatic, economic, financial, 
        technological, scientific, commercial, academic, and cultural 
        spheres in which the United States does not enjoy a reciprocal 
        relationship with the People's Republic of China.
            (2) A comprehensive assessment that describes how the lack 
        of reciprocity between the People's Republic of China and the 
        United States in the areas identified in the assessment 
        required by paragraph (1) provides advantages to the People's 
        Republic of China.
    (b) Form of Assessments.--
            (1) Critical areas.--The assessment required by subsection 
        (a)(1) shall be submitted in unclassified form.
            (2) Advantages.--The assessment required by subsection 
        (a)(2) shall be submitted in classified form.

SEC. 405. ANNUAL BRIEFING ON INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY EFFORTS TO IDENTIFY 
              AND MITIGATE CHINESE COMMUNIST PARTY AND RUSSIAN FOREIGN 
              MALIGN INFLUENCE OPERATIONS AGAINST THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Chinese entities engaged in foreign malign influence 
        operations.--The term ``hinese entities engaged in foreign 
        malign influence operations'' means all of the elements of the 
        Government of the People's Republic of China and the Chinese 
        Communist Party involved in foreign malign influence, such as--
                    (A) the Ministry of State Security;
                    (B) other security services of the People's 
                Republic of China;
                    (C) the intelligence services of the People's 
                Republic of China;
                    (D) the United Front Work Department and other 
                united front organs;
                    (E) state-controlled media systems, such as the 
                China Global Television Network (CGTN); and
                    (F) any entity involved in foreign malign influence 
                operations that demonstrably and intentionally 
                disseminate false information and propaganda of the 
                Government of the People's Republic of China or the 
                Chinese Communist Party.
            (2) Russian malign influence actors.--The term ``Russian 
        malign influence actors'' refers to entities or individuals 
        engaged in foreign malign influence operations against the 
        United States who are affiliated with--
                    (A) the intelligence and security services of the 
                Russian Federation
                    (B) the Presidential Administration;
                    (C) any other entity of the Government of the 
                Russian Federation; or
                    (D) Russian mercenary or proxy groups such as the 
                Wagner Group.
            (3) Foreign malign influence operation.--The term ``foreign 
        malign influence operation'' means a coordinated and often 
        concealed activity that is covered by the definition of the 
        term ``foreign malign influence'' in section 119C of the 
        National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3059) and uses 
        disinformation, press manipulation, economic coercion, targeted 
        investments, corruption, or academic censorship, which are 
        often intended--
                    (A) to coerce and corrupt United States interests, 
                values, institutions, or individuals; and
                    (B) to foster attitudes, behavior, decisions, or 
                outcomes in the United States that support the 
                interests of the Government of the People's Republic of 
                China or the Chinese Communist Party.
    (b) Briefing Required.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act and annually thereafter until the date that 
is 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of 
the Foreign Malign Influence Center shall, in collaboration with the 
heads of the elements of the intelligence community, provide Congress a 
classified briefing on the ways in which the relevant elements of the 
intelligence community are working internally and coordinating across 
the intelligence community to identify and mitigate the actions of 
Chinese and Russian entities engaged in foreign malign influence 
operations against the United States, including against United States 
persons.
    (c) Elements.--The classified briefing required by subsection (b) 
shall cover the following:
            (1) The Government of the Russian Federation, the 
        Government of the People's Republic of China, and the Chinese 
        Communist Party tactics, tools, and entities that spread 
        disinformation, misinformation, and malign information and 
        conduct influence operations, information campaigns, or other 
        propaganda efforts.
            (2) A description of ongoing foreign malign influence 
        operations and campaigns of the Russian Federation against the 
        United States and an assessment of their objectives and 
        effectiveness in meeting those objectives.
            (3) A description of ongoing foreign malign influence 
        operations and campaigns of the People's Republic of China 
        against the United States and an assessment of their objectives 
        and effectiveness in meeting those objectives.
            (4) A description of any cooperation, information-sharing, 
        amplification, or other coordination between the Russian 
        Federation and the People's Republic of China in developing or 
        carrying out foreign malign influence operations against the 
        United States.
            (5) A description of front organizations, proxies, cut-
        outs, aligned third-party countries, or organizations used by 
        the Russian Federation or the People's Republic of China to 
        carry out foreign malign influence operations against the 
        United States.
            (6) An assessment of the loopholes or vulnerabilities in 
        United States law that Russia and the People's Republic of 
        China exploit to carry out foreign malign influence operations.
            (7) The actions of the Foreign Malign Influence Center, in 
        coordination with the Global Engagement Center, relating to 
        early-warning, information sharing, and proactive risk 
        mitigation systems, based on the list of entities identified in 
        subsection (a)(1), to detect, expose, deter, and counter 
        foreign malign influence operations of the Government of the 
        People's Republic of China or the Chinese Communist Party 
        against the United States.
            (8) The actions of the Foreign Malign Influence Center to 
        conduct outreach, to identify and counter tactics, tools, and 
        entities described in paragraph (1) by sharing information with 
        allies and partners of the United States, in coordination with 
        the Global Engagement Center, as well as State and local 
        governments, the business community, and civil society in order 
        to expose the political influence operations and information 
        operations of the Government of the Russian Federation and the 
        Government of the People's Republic of China or the Chinese 
        Communist Party carried out against individuals and entities in 
        the United States.

SEC. 406. ASSESSMENT OF THREAT POSED TO UNITED STATES PORTS BY CRANES 
              MANUFACTURED BY COUNTRIES OF CONCERN.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the congressional intelligence committees;
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, the 
                Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, and 
                the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on 
                Appropriations of the Senate; and
                    (C) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Oversight and Accountability, the Committee on 
                Financial Services, and the Subcommittee on Defense of 
                the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) Country of concern.--The term ``country of concern'' 
        has the meaning given that term in section 1(m)(1) of the State 
        Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 
        2651a(m)(1)).
    (b) Assessment.--The Director of National Intelligence, in 
coordination with such other heads of the elements of the intelligence 
community as the Director considers appropriate and the Secretary of 
Defense, shall conduct an assessment of the threat posed to United 
States ports by cranes manufactured by countries of concern and 
commercial entities of those countries, including the Shanghai Zhenhua 
Heavy Industries Co. (ZPMC).
    (c) Report and Briefing.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Director of National 
        Intelligence shall submit a report and provide a briefing to 
        the appropriate committees of Congress on the findings of the 
        assessment required by subsection (b).
            (2) Elements.--The report and briefing required by 
        paragraph (1) shall outline the potential for the cranes 
        described in subsection (b) to collect intelligence, disrupt 
        operations at United States ports, and impact the national 
        security of the United States.
            (3) Form of report.--The report required by paragraph (1) 
        shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
        classified annex.

                  Subtitle B--Other Foreign Countries

SEC. 411. REPORT ON EFFORTS TO CAPTURE AND DETAIN UNITED STATES 
              CITIZENS AS HOSTAGES.

    (a) Definition of Appropriate Committees of Congress.--In this 
section, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the congressional intelligence committees;
            (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
        the Judiciary, and the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee 
        on Appropriations of the Senate; and
            (3) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on the 
        Judiciary, and the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
    (b) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on efforts by 
the Maduro regime in Venezuela to detain United States citizens and 
lawful permanent residents.
    (c) Elements.--The report required by subsection (b) shall include, 
regarding the arrest, capture, detainment, or imprisonment of United 
States citizens and lawful permanent residents, the following:
            (1) The names, positions, and institutional affiliation of 
        Venezuelan individuals, or those acting on their behalf, who 
        have engaged in such activities.
            (2) A description of any role played by transnational 
        criminal organizations, and an identification of such 
        organizations.
            (3) Where relevant, an assessment of whether and how United 
        States citizens and lawful permanent residents have been lured 
        to Venezuela.
            (4) An analysis of the motive for the arrest, capture, 
        detainment, or imprisonment of United States citizens and 
        lawful permanent residents.
            (5) The total number of United States citizens and lawful 
        permanent residents detained or imprisoned in Venezuela as of 
        the date on which the report is submitted.
    (d) Form.--The report required by subsection (b) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 412. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON PRIORITY OF FENTANYL IN NATIONAL 
              INTELLIGENCE PRIORITIES FRAMEWORK.

    It is the sense of Congress that the trafficking of illicit 
fentanyl, including precursor chemicals and manufacturing equipment 
associated with illicit fentanyl production and organizations that 
traffic or finance the trafficking of illicit fentanyl, originating 
from the People's Republic of China and Mexico should be among the 
highest priorities in the National Intelligence Priorities Framework of 
the Office of the Director of National Intelligence.

  TITLE V--MATTERS PERTAINING TO UNITED STATES ECONOMIC AND EMERGING 
         TECHNOLOGY COMPETITION WITH UNITED STATES ADVERSARIES

                      Subtitle A--General Matters

SEC. 501. ASSIGNMENT OF DETAILEES FROM INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY TO 
              DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE.

    (a) Authority.--In order to better facilitate the sharing of 
actionable intelligence on foreign adversary intent, capabilities, 
threats, and operations that pose a threat to the interests or security 
of the United States, particularly as they relate to the procurement, 
development, and use of dual-use and emerging technologies, the 
Director of National Intelligence may assign or facilitate the 
assignment of members from across the intelligence community to serve 
as detailees to the Bureau of Industry and Security of the Department 
of Commerce.
    (b) Assignment.--Detailees assigned pursuant to subsection (a) 
shall be drawn from such elements of the intelligence community as the 
Director considers appropriate, in consultation with the Secretary of 
Commerce.
    (c) Expertise.--The Director shall ensure that detailees assigned 
pursuant to subsection (a) have subject matter expertise on countries 
of concern, including China, Iran, North Korea, and Russia, as well as 
functional areas such as illicit procurement, counterproliferation, 
emerging and foundational technology, economic and financial 
intelligence, information and communications technology systems, supply 
chain vulnerability, and counterintelligence.
    (d) Duty Credit.--The detail of an employee of the intelligence 
community to the Department of Commerce under subsection (a) shall be 
without interruption or loss of civil service status or privilege.

   Subtitle B--Next-generation Energy, Biotechnology, and Artificial 
                              Intelligence

SEC. 511. EXPANDED ANNUAL ASSESSMENT OF ECONOMIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL 
              CAPABILITIES OF THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.

    Section 6503(c)(3) of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
                    ``(I) A detailed assessment, prepared in 
                consultation with all elements of the working group--
                            ``(i) of the investments made by the 
                        People's Republic of China in--
                                    ``(I) artificial intelligence;
                                    ``(II) next-generation energy 
                                technologies, especially small modular 
                                reactors and advanced batteries; and
                                    ``(III) biotechnology; and
                            ``(ii) that identifies--
                                    ``(I) competitive practices of the 
                                People's Republic of China relating to 
                                the technologies described in clause 
                                (i);
                                    ``(II) opportunities to counter the 
                                practices described in subclause (I);
                                    ``(III) countries the People's 
                                Republic of China is targeting for 
                                exports of civil nuclear technology;
                                    ``(IV) countries best positioned to 
                                utilize civil nuclear technologies from 
                                the United States in order to 
                                facilitate the commercial export of 
                                those technologies;
                                    ``(V) United States vulnerabilities 
                                in the supply chain of these 
                                technologies; and
                                    ``(VI) opportunities to counter the 
                                export by the People's Republic of 
                                China of civil nuclear technologies 
                                globally.
                    ``(J) An identification and assessment of any unmet 
                resource or authority needs of the working group that 
                affect the ability of the working group to carry out 
                this section.''.

SEC. 512. ASSESSMENT OF USING CIVIL NUCLEAR ENERGY FOR INTELLIGENCE 
              COMMUNITY CAPABILITIES.

    (a) Assessment Required.--The Director of National Intelligence 
shall, in consultation with the heads of such other elements of the 
intelligence community as the Director considers appropriate, conduct 
an assessment of capabilities identified by the Intelligence Community 
Continuity Program established pursuant to section E(3) of Intelligence 
Community Directive 118, or any successor directive, or such other 
intelligence community facilities or intelligence community 
capabilities as may be determined by the Director to be critical to 
United States national security, that have unique energy needs--
            (1) to ascertain the feasibility and advisability of using 
        civil nuclear reactors to meet such needs; and
            (2) to identify such additional resources, technologies, 
        infrastructure, or authorities needed, or other potential 
        obstacles, to commence use of a nuclear reactor to meet such 
        needs.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to the congressional 
intelligence committees, the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, 
and the Committee on Oversight and Accountability and the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives a report, which may be 
in classified form, on the findings of the Director with respect to the 
assessment conducted pursuant to subsection (a).

SEC. 513. POLICIES ESTABLISHED BY DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE FOR 
              ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE CAPABILITIES.

    (a) In General.--Section 6702 of the Intelligence Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2023 (50 U.S.C. 3334m) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), in the matter preceding paragraph 
        (1), by striking ``subsection (b)'' and inserting ``subsection 
        (c)'';
            (2) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
    ``(b) Policies.--
            ``(1) In general.--In carrying out subsection (a)(1), not 
        later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of the 
        Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024, the 
        Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the 
        heads of the elements of the intelligence community, the 
        Director of the Office of Management and Budget, and such other 
        officials as the Director of National Intelligence determines 
        appropriate, shall establish the policies described in 
        paragraph (2).
            ``(2) Policies described.--The policies described in this 
        paragraph are policies for the acquisition, adoption, 
        development, use, coordination, and maintenance of artificial 
        intelligence capabilities that--
                    ``(A) establish a lexicon relating to the use of 
                machine learning and artificial intelligence developed 
                or acquired by elements of the intelligence community;
                    ``(B) establish guidelines for evaluating the 
                performance of models developed or acquired by elements 
                of the intelligence community, such as by--
                            ``(i) specifying conditions for the 
                        continuous monitoring of artificial 
                        intelligence capabilities for performance, 
                        including the conditions for retraining or 
                        retiring models based on performance;
                            ``(ii) documenting performance objectives, 
                        including specifying how performance objectives 
                        shall be developed and contractually enforced 
                        for capabilities procured from third parties;
                            ``(iii) specifying the manner in which 
                        models should be audited, as necessary, 
                        including the types of documentation that 
                        should be provided to any auditor; and
                            ``(iv) specifying conditions under which 
                        models used by elements of the intelligence 
                        community should be subject to testing and 
                        evaluation for vulnerabilities to techniques 
                        meant to undermine the availability, integrity, 
                        or privacy of an artificial intelligence 
                        capability;
                    ``(C) establish guidelines for tracking 
                dependencies in adjacent systems, capabilities, or 
                processes impacted by the retraining or sunsetting of 
                any model described in subparagraph (B);
                    ``(D) establish documentation requirements for 
                capabilities procured from third parties, aligning such 
                requirements, as necessary, with existing documentation 
                requirements applicable to capabilities developed by 
                elements of the intelligence community;
                    ``(E) establish standards for the documentation of 
                imputed, augmented, or synthetic data used to train any 
                model developed, procured, or used by an element of the 
                intelligence community; and
                    ``(F) provide guidance on the acquisition and usage 
                of models that have previously been trained by a third 
                party for subsequent modification and usage by such an 
                element.
            ``(3) Policy review and revision.--The Director of National 
        Intelligence shall periodically review and revise each policy 
        established under paragraph (1).''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 6712(b)(1) of such Act (50 
U.S.C. 3024 note) is amended by striking ``section 6702(b)'' and 
inserting ``section 6702(c)''.

                    TITLE VI--WHISTLEBLOWER MATTERS

SEC. 601. SUBMITTAL TO CONGRESS OF COMPLAINTS AND INFORMATION BY 
              WHISTLEBLOWERS IN THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.

    (a) Amendments to Chapter 4 of Title 5.--
            (1) Appointment of security officers.--Section 416 of title 
        5, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
        following:
    ``(i) Appointment of Security Officers.--Each Inspector General 
under this section, including the designees of the Inspector General of 
the Department of Defense pursuant to subsection (b)(3), shall appoint 
within their offices security officers to provide, on a permanent 
basis, confidential, security-related guidance and direction to 
employees and contractors described in subsection (b)(1) who intend to 
report to Congress complaints or information, so that such employees 
and contractors can obtain direction on how to report to Congress in 
accordance with appropriate security practices.''.
            (2) Procedures.--Subsection (e) of such section is 
        amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``or any other 
                committee of jurisdiction of the Senate or the House of 
                Representatives'' after ``either or both of the 
                intelligence committees'';
                    (B) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
            ``(2) Limitation.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (B), the employee may contact an 
                intelligence committee or another committee of 
                jurisdiction directly as described in paragraph (1) of 
                this subsection or in subsection (b)(4) only if the 
                employee--
                            ``(i) before making such a contact, 
                        furnishes to the head of the establishment, 
                        through the Inspector General (or designee), a 
                        statement of the employee's complaint or 
                        information and notice of the employee's intent 
                        to contact an intelligence committee or another 
                        committee of jurisdiction of the Senate or the 
                        House of Representatives directly; and
                            ``(ii)(I) obtains and follows, from the 
                        head of the establishment, through the 
                        Inspector General (or designee), procedural 
                        direction on how to contact an intelligence 
                        committee or another committee of jurisdiction 
                        of the Senate or the House of Representatives 
                        in accordance with appropriate security 
                        practices; or
                            ``(II) obtains and follows such procedural 
                        direction from the applicable security officer 
                        appointed under subsection (i).
                    ``(B) Lack of procedural direction.--If an employee 
                seeks procedural direction under subparagraph (A)(ii) 
                and does not receive such procedural direction within 
                30 days, or receives insufficient direction to report 
                to Congress a complaint or information, the employee 
                may contact an intelligence committee or any other 
                committee of jurisdiction of the Senate or the House of 
                Representatives directly without obtaining or following 
                the procedural direction otherwise required under such 
                subparagraph.''; and
                    (C) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph 
                (4); and
                    (D) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
            ``(3) Committee members and staff.--An employee of an 
        element of the intelligence community who intends to report to 
        Congress a complaint or information may report such complaint 
        or information to the Chairman and Vice Chairman or Ranking 
        Member, as the case may be, of an intelligence committee or 
        another committee of jurisdiction of the Senate or the House of 
        Representatives, a nonpartisan member of the committee staff 
        designated for purposes of receiving complaints or information 
        under this section, or a member of the majority staff and a 
        member of the minority staff of the committee.''.
            (3) Clarification of right to report directly to 
        congress.--Subsection (b) of such section is amended by adding 
        at the end the following:
            ``(4) Clarification of right to report directly to 
        congress.--Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (e), 
        an employee of an element of the intelligence community who 
        intends to report to Congress a complaint or information may 
        report such complaint or information directly to Congress.''.
    (b) Amendments to National Security Act of 1947.--
            (1) Appointment of security officers.--Section 103H(j) of 
        the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3033(j)) is 
        amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) The Inspector General shall appoint within the Office 
        of the Inspector General security officers as required by 
        section 416(i) of title 5, United States Code.''.
            (2) Procedures.--Subparagraph (D) of section 103H(k)(5) of 
        such Act (50 U.S.C. 3033(k)(5)) is amended--
                    (A) in clause (i), by inserting ``or any other 
                committee of jurisdiction of the Senate or the House of 
                Representatives'' after ``either or both of the 
                congressional intelligence committees'';
                    (B) by amending clause (ii) to read as follows:
            ``(ii)(I) Except as provided in subclause (II), an employee 
        may contact a congressional intelligence committee or another 
        committee of jurisdiction directly as described in clause (i) 
        only if the employee--
                    ``(aa) before making such a contact, furnishes to 
                the Director, through the Inspector General, a 
                statement of the employee's complaint or information 
                and notice of the employee's intent to contact a 
                congressional intelligence committee or another 
                committee of jurisdiction of the Senate or the House of 
                Representatives directly; and
                    ``(bb)(AA) obtains and follows, from the Director, 
                through the Inspector General, procedural direction on 
                how to contact a congressional intelligence committee 
                or another committee of jurisdiction of the Senate or 
                the House of Representatives in accordance with 
                appropriate security practices; or
                    ``(BB) obtains and follows such procedural 
                direction from the applicable security officer 
                appointed under section 416(i) of title 5, United 
                States Code.
                    ``(II) If an employee seeks procedural direction 
                under subclause (I)(bb) and does not receive such 
                procedural direction within 30 days, or receives 
                insufficient direction to report to Congress a 
                complaint or information, the employee may contact a 
                congressional intelligence committee or any other 
                committee of jurisdiction of the Senate or the House of 
                Representatives directly without obtaining or following 
                the procedural direction otherwise required under such 
                subclause.'';
                    (C) by redesignating clause (iii) as clause (iv); 
                and
                    (D) by inserting after clause (ii) the following:
            ``(iii) An employee of an element of the intelligence 
        community who intends to report to Congress a complaint or 
        information may report such complaint or information to the 
        Chairman and Vice Chairman or Ranking Member, as the case may 
        be, of a congressional intelligence committee or another 
        committee of jurisdiction of the Senate or the House of 
        Representatives, a nonpartisan member of the committee staff 
        designated for purposes of receiving complaints or information 
        under this section, or a member of the majority staff and a 
        member of the minority staff of the committee.''.
            (3) Clarification of right to report directly to 
        congress.--Subparagraph (A) of such section is amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``(i)'' before ``An employee of''; 
                and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(ii) Subject to clauses (ii) and (iii) of subparagraph 
        (D), an employee of an element of the intelligence community 
        who intends to report to Congress a complaint or information 
        may report such complaint or information directly to Congress, 
        regardless of whether the complaint or information is with 
        respect to an urgent concern--
                    ``(I) in lieu of reporting such complaint or 
                information under clause (i); or
                    ``(II) in addition to reporting such complaint or 
                information under clause (i).''.
    (c) Amendments to the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949.--
            (1) Appointment of security officers.--Section 17(d)(5) of 
        the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 
        3517(d)(5)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(I) The Inspector General shall appoint within the Office of the 
Inspector General security officers as required by section 416(i) of 
title 5, United States Code.''.
            (2) Procedures.--Subparagraph (D) of such section is 
        amended--
                    (A) in clause (i), by inserting ``or any other 
                committee of jurisdiction of the Senate or the House of 
                Representatives'' after ``either or both of the 
                intelligence committees'';
                    (B) by amending clause (ii) to read as follows:
    ``(ii)(I) Except as provided in subclause (II), an employee may 
contact an intelligence committee or another committee of jurisdiction 
directly as described in clause (i) only if the employee--
            ``(aa) before making such a contact, furnishes to the 
        Director, through the Inspector General, a statement of the 
        employee's complaint or information and notice of the 
        employee's intent to contact an intelligence committee or 
        another committee of jurisdiction of the Senate or the House of 
        Representatives directly; and
            ``(bb)(AA) obtains and follows, from the Director, through 
        the Inspector General, procedural direction on how to contact 
        an intelligence committee or another committee of jurisdiction 
        of the Senate or the House of Representatives in accordance 
        with appropriate security practices; or
            ``(BB) obtains and follows such procedural direction from 
        the applicable security officer appointed under section 416(i) 
        of title 5, United States Code.
            ``(II) If an employee seeks procedural direction under 
        subclause (I)(bb) and does not receive such procedural 
        direction within 30 days, or receives insufficient direction to 
        report to Congress a complaint or information, the employee may 
        contact an intelligence committee or another committee of 
        jurisdiction of the Senate or the House of Representatives 
        directly without obtaining or following the procedural 
        direction otherwise required under such subclause.'';
                    (C) by redesignating clause (iii) as clause (iv); 
                and
                    (D) by inserting after clause (ii) the following:
    ``(iii) An employee of the Agency who intends to report to Congress 
a complaint or information may report such complaint or information to 
the Chairman and Vice Chairman or Ranking Member, as the case may be, 
of an intelligence committee or another committee of jurisdiction of 
the Senate or the House of Representatives, a nonpartisan member of the 
committee staff designated for purposes of receiving complaints or 
information under this section, or a member of the majority staff and a 
member of the minority staff of the committee.''.
            (3) Clarification of right to report directly to 
        congress.--Subparagraph (A) of such section is amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``(i)'' before ``An employee of''; 
                and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(ii) Subject to clauses (ii) and (iii) of subparagraph (D), an 
employee of the Agency who intends to report to Congress a complaint or 
information may report such complaint or information directly to 
Congress, regardless of whether the complaint or information is with 
respect to an urgent concern--
            ``(I) in lieu of reporting such complaint or information 
        under clause (i); or
            ``(II) in addition to reporting such complaint or 
        information under clause (i).''.
    (d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section or an amendment 
made by this section shall be construed to revoke or diminish any right 
of an individual provided by section 2303 of title 5, United States 
Code.

SEC. 602. PROHIBITION AGAINST DISCLOSURE OF WHISTLEBLOWER IDENTITY AS 
              REPRISAL AGAINST WHISTLEBLOWER DISCLOSURE BY EMPLOYEES 
              AND CONTRACTORS IN INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.

    (a) In General.--Section 1104 of the National Security Act of 1947 
(50 U.S.C. 3234) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(3) of such section--
                    (A) in subparagraph (I), by striking ``; or'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraph (J) as 
                subparagraph (K); and
                    (C) by inserting after subparagraph (I) the 
                following:
                    ``(J) a knowing and willful disclosure revealing 
                the identity or other personally identifiable 
                information of an employee or contractor employee so as 
                to identify the employee or contractor employee as an 
                employee or contractor employee who has made a lawful 
                disclosure described in subsection (b) or (c); or'';
            (2) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections 
        (g) and (h), respectively; and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (e) the following:
    ``(f) Personnel Actions Involving Disclosure of Whistleblower 
Identity.--A personnel action described in subsection (a)(3)(J) shall 
not be considered to be in violation of subsection (b) or (c) under the 
following circumstances:
            ``(1) The personnel action was taken with the express 
        consent of the employee or contractor employee.
            ``(2) An Inspector General with oversight responsibility 
        for a covered intelligence community element determines that--
                    ``(A) the personnel action was unavoidable under 
                section 103H(g)(3)(A) of this Act (50 U.S.C. 
                3033(g)(3)(A)), section 17(e)(3)(A) of the Central 
                Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 
                3517(e)(3)(A)), section 407(b) of title 5, United 
                States Code, or section 420(b)(2)(B) of such title;
                    ``(B) the personnel action was made to an official 
                of the Department of Justice responsible for 
                determining whether a prosecution should be undertaken; 
                or
                    ``(C) the personnel action was required by statute 
                or an order from a court of competent jurisdiction.''.
    (b) Applicability to Detailees.--Subsection (a) of section 1104 of 
such Act (50 U.S.C. 3234) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
            ``(5) Employee.--The term `employee', with respect to an 
        agency or a covered intelligence community element, includes an 
        individual who has been detailed to such agency or covered 
        intelligence community element.''.
    (c) Harmonization of Enforcement.--Subsection (g) of such section, 
as redesignated by subsection (a)(2) of this section, is amended to 
read as follows:
    ``(g) Enforcement.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        subsection, the President shall provide for the enforcement of 
        this section.
            ``(2) Harmonization with other enforcement.--To the fullest 
        extent possible, the President shall provide for enforcement of 
        this section in a manner that is consistent with the 
        enforcement of section 2302(b)(8) of title 5, United States 
        Code, especially with respect to policies and procedures used 
        to adjudicate alleged violations of such section.''.

SEC. 603. ESTABLISHING PROCESS PARITY FOR ADVERSE SECURITY CLEARANCE 
              AND ACCESS DETERMINATIONS.

    Subparagraph (C) of section 3001(j)(4) of the Intelligence Reform 
and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 3341(j)(4)) is amended 
to read as follows:
                    ``(C) Contributing factor.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Subject to clause (iii), 
                        in determining whether the adverse security 
                        clearance or access determination violated 
                        paragraph (1), the agency shall find that 
                        paragraph (1) was violated if the individual 
                        has demonstrated that a disclosure described in 
                        paragraph (1) was a contributing factor in the 
                        adverse security clearance or access 
                        determination taken against the individual.
                            ``(ii) Circumstantial evidence.--An 
                        individual under clause (i) may demonstrate 
                        that the disclosure was a contributing factor 
                        in the adverse security clearance or access 
                        determination taken against the individual 
                        through circumstantial evidence, such as 
                        evidence that--
                                    ``(I) the official making the 
                                determination knew of the disclosure; 
                                and
                                    ``(II) the determination occurred 
                                within a period such that a reasonable 
                                person could conclude that the 
                                disclosure was a contributing factor in 
                                the determination.
                            ``(iii) Defense.--In determining whether 
                        the adverse security clearance or access 
                        determination violated paragraph (1), the 
                        agency shall not find that paragraph (1) was 
                        violated if, after a finding that a disclosure 
                        was a contributing factor, the agency 
                        demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence 
                        that it would have made the same security 
                        clearance or access determination in the 
                        absence of such disclosure.''.

SEC. 604. ELIMINATION OF CAP ON COMPENSATORY DAMAGES FOR RETALIATORY 
              REVOCATION OF SECURITY CLEARANCES AND ACCESS 
              DETERMINATIONS.

    Section 3001(j)(4)(B) of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism 
Prevention Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 3341(j)(4)(B)) is amended, in the 
second sentence, by striking ``not to exceed $300,000''.

SEC. 605. MODIFICATION AND REPEAL OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Modification of Frequency of Whistleblower Notifications to 
Inspector General of the Intelligence Community.--Section 5334(a) of 
the Damon Paul Nelson and Matthew Young Pollard Intelligence 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 2018, 2019, and 2020 (Public Law 
116-92; 50 U.S.C. 3033 note) is amended by striking ``in real time'' 
and inserting ``monthly''.
    (b) Repeal of Requirement for Inspectors General Reviews of 
Enhanced Personnel Security Programs.--
            (1) In general.--Section 11001 of title 5, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) by striking subsection (d); and
                    (B) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection 
                (d).
            (2) Technical corrections.--Subsection (d) of section 11001 
        of such title, as redesignated by paragraph (1)(B), is 
        amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (3), by adding ``and'' after the 
                semicolon at the end; and
                    (B) in paragraph (4), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a period.

                    TITLE VII--CLASSIFICATION REFORM

             Subtitle A--Classification Reform Act of 2023

SEC. 701. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Classification Reform Act of 
2023''.

SEC. 702. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Agency.--The term ``agency'' means any Executive agency 
        as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code, any 
        military department as defined in section 102 of such title, 
        and any other entity in the executive branch of the Federal 
        Government that comes into the possession of classified 
        information.
            (2) Classify, classified, classification.--The terms 
        ``classify'', ``classified'', and ``classification'' refer to 
        the process by which information is determined to require 
        protection from unauthorized disclosure pursuant to Executive 
        Order 13526 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to classified 
        national security information), or previous and successor 
        executive orders or similar directives, or section 703 in order 
        to protect the national security of the United States.
            (3) Classified information.--The term ``classified 
        information'' means information that has been classified under 
        Executive Order 13526 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to 
        classified national security information), or previous and 
        successor executive orders or similar directives, or section 
        703.
            (4) Declassify, declassified, declassification.--The terms 
        ``declassify'', ``declassified'', and ``declassification'' 
        refer to the process by which information that has been 
        classified is determined to no longer require protection from 
        unauthorized disclosure pursuant to Executive Order 13526 (50 
        U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to classified national security 
        information), or previous and successor executive orders or 
        similar directives, or section 703.
            (5) Information.--The term ``information'' means any 
        knowledge that can be communicated, or documentary material, 
        regardless of its physical form or characteristics, that is 
        owned by, is produced by or for, or is under the control of the 
        United States Government.

SEC. 703. CLASSIFICATION AND DECLASSIFICATION OF INFORMATION.

    (a) In General.--The President may, in accordance with this 
section, protect from unauthorized disclosure any information owned by, 
produced by or for, or under the control of the executive branch of the 
Federal Government when there is a demonstrable need to do so in order 
to protect the national security of the United States.
    (b) Establishment of Standards and Procedures for Classification 
and Declassification.--
            (1) Governmentwide procedures.--
                    (A) Classification.--The President shall, to the 
                extent necessary, establish categories of information 
                that may be classified and procedures for classifying 
                information under subsection (a).
                    (B) Declassification.--At the same time the 
                President establishes categories and procedures under 
                subparagraph (A), the President shall establish 
                procedures for declassifying information that was 
                previously classified.
                    (C) Minimum requirements.--The procedures 
                established pursuant to subparagraphs (A) and (B) 
                shall--
                            (i) provide that information may be 
                        classified under this section, and may remain 
                        classified under this section, only if the harm 
                        to national security that might reasonably be 
                        expected from disclosure of such information 
                        outweighs the public interest in disclosure of 
                        such information;
                            (ii) establish standards and criteria for 
                        the classification of information;
                            (iii) establish standards, criteria, and 
                        timelines for the declassification of 
                        information classified under this section;
                            (iv) provide for the automatic 
                        declassification of classified records with 
                        permanent historical value;
                            (v) provide for the timely review of 
                        materials submitted for pre-publication;
                            (vi) narrow the criteria for classification 
                        set forth under section 1.4 of Executive Order 
                        13526 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to 
                        classified national security information), as 
                        in effect on the day before the date of the 
                        enactment of this Act;
                            (vii) narrow the exemptions from automatic 
                        declassification set forth under section 3.3(b) 
                        of Executive Order 13526 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note; 
                        relating to classified national security 
                        information), as in effect on the day before 
                        the date of the enactment of this Act;
                            (viii) provide a clear and specific 
                        definition of ``harm to national security'' as 
                        it pertains to clause (i); and
                            (ix) provide a clear and specific 
                        definition of ``intelligence sources and 
                        methods'' as it pertains to the categories and 
                        procedures under subparagraph (A).
            (2) Agency standards and procedures.--
                    (A) In general.--The head of each agency shall 
                establish a single set of consolidated standards and 
                procedures to permit such agency to classify and 
                declassify information created by such agency in 
                accordance with the categories and procedures 
                established by the President under this section and 
                otherwise to carry out this section.
                    (B) Submittal to congress.--Each agency head shall 
                submit to Congress the standards and procedures 
                established by such agency head under subparagraph (A).
    (c) Conforming Amendment to FOIA.--Section 552(b)(1) of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
            ``(1)(A) specifically authorized to be classified under 
        section 703 of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2024, or specifically authorized under criteria 
        established by an Executive order to be kept secret in the 
        interest of national security; and
            ``(B) are in fact properly classified pursuant to that 
        section or Executive order;''.
    (d) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--Subsections (a) and (b) shall take effect 
        on the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
        this Act.
            (2) Relation to presidential directives.--Presidential 
        directives regarding classifying, safeguarding, and 
        declassifying national security information, including 
        Executive Order 13526 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to 
        classified national security information), or successor order, 
        in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this 
        Act, as well as procedures issued pursuant to such Presidential 
        directives, shall remain in effect until superseded by 
        procedures issues pursuant to subsection (b).

SEC. 704. TRANSPARENCY OFFICERS.

    (a) Designation.--The Attorney General, the Secretary of Defense, 
the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the 
Director of National Intelligence, the Director of the Central 
Intelligence Agency, the Director of the National Security Agency, the 
Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the head of any 
other department, agency, or element of the executive branch of the 
Federal Government determined by the Privacy and Civil Liberties 
Oversight Board established by section 1061 of the Intelligence Reform 
and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (42 U.S.C. 2000ee) to be 
appropriate for coverage under this section, shall each designate at 
least 1 senior officer to serve as the principal advisor to assist such 
head of a department, agency, or element and other officials of the 
department, agency, or element of the head in identifying records of 
significant public interest and prioritizing appropriate review of such 
records in order to facilitate the public disclosure of such records in 
redacted or unredacted form.
    (b) Determining Public Interest in Disclosure.--In assisting the 
head of a department, agency, or element and other officials of such 
department, agency, or element in identifying records of significant 
public interest under subsection (a), the senior officer designated by 
the head under such subsection shall consider whether--
            (1) or not disclosure of the information would better 
        enable United States citizens to hold Federal Government 
        officials accountable for their actions and policies;
            (2) or not disclosure of the information would assist the 
        United States criminal justice system in holding persons 
        responsible for criminal acts or acts contrary to the 
        Constitution;
            (3) or not disclosure of the information would assist 
        Congress or any committee or subcommittee thereof, in carrying 
        out its oversight responsibilities with regard to the executive 
        branch of the Federal Government or in adequately informing 
        itself of executive branch policies and activities in order to 
        carry out its legislative responsibilities;
            (4) the disclosure of the information would assist Congress 
        or the public in understanding the interpretation of the 
        Federal Government of a provision of law, including Federal 
        regulations, Presidential directives, statutes, case law, and 
        the Constitution of the United States; or
            (5) or not disclosure of the information would bring about 
        any other significant benefit, including an increase in public 
        awareness or understanding of Government activities or an 
        enhancement of Federal Government efficiency.
    (c) Periodic Reports.--
            (1) In general.--Each senior officer designated under 
        subsection (a) shall periodically, but not less frequently than 
        annually, submit a report on the activities of the officer, 
        including the documents determined to be in the public interest 
        for disclosure under subsection (b), to--
                    (A) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs and the Select Committee on 
                Intelligence of the Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on Oversight and Government 
                Reform and the Permanent Select Committee on 
                Intelligence of the House of Representatives; and
                    (C) the head of the department, agency, or element 
                of the senior officer.
            (2) Form.--Each report submitted pursuant to paragraph (1) 
        shall be submitted, to the greatest extent possible, in 
        unclassified form, with a classified annex as may be necessary.

            Subtitle B--Sensible Classification Act of 2023

SEC. 711. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Sensible Classification Act of 
2023''.

SEC. 712. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Agency.--The term ``agency'' has the meaning given the 
        term ``Executive agency'' in section 105 of title 5, United 
        States Code.
            (2) Classification.--The term ``classification'' means the 
        act or process by which information is determined to be 
        classified information.
            (3) Classified information.--The term ``classified 
        information'' means information that has been determined 
        pursuant to Executive Order 12958 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note; 
        relating to classified national security information), or 
        successor order, to require protection against unauthorized 
        disclosure and is marked to indicate its classified status when 
        in documentary form.
            (4) Declassification.--The term ``declassification'' means 
        the authorized change in the status of information from 
        classified information to unclassified information.
            (5) Document.--The term ``document'' means any recorded 
        information, regardless of the nature of the medium or the 
        method or circumstances of recording.
            (6) Downgrade.--The term ``downgrade'' means a 
        determination by a declassification authority that information 
        classified and safeguarded at a specified level shall be 
        classified and safeguarded at a lower level.
            (7) Information.--The term ``information'' means any 
        knowledge that can be communicated or documentary material, 
        regardless of its physical form or characteristics, that is 
        owned by, is produced by or for, or is under the control of the 
        United States Government.
            (8) Originate, originating, and originated.--The term 
        ``originate'', ``originating'', and ``originated'', with 
        respect to classified information and an authority, means the 
        authority that classified the information in the first 
        instance.
            (9) Records.--The term ``records'' means the records of an 
        agency and Presidential papers or Presidential records, as 
        those terms are defined in title 44, United States Code, 
        including those created or maintained by a government 
        contractor, licensee, certificate holder, or grantee that are 
        subject to the sponsoring agency's control under the terms of 
        the contract, license, certificate, or grant.
            (10) Security clearance.--The term ``security clearance'' 
        means an authorization to access classified information.
            (11) Unauthorized disclosure.--The term ``unauthorized 
        disclosure'' means a communication or physical transfer of 
        classified information to an unauthorized recipient.
            (12) Unclassified information.--The term ``unclassified 
        information'' means information that is not classified 
        information.

SEC. 713. FINDINGS AND SENSE OF THE SENATE.

    (a) Findings.--The Senate makes the following findings:
            (1) According to a report released by the Office of the 
        Director of Intelligence in 2020 titled ``Fiscal Year 2019 
        Annual Report on Security Clearance Determinations'', more than 
        4,000,000 individuals have been granted eligibility for a 
        security clearance.
            (2) At least 1,300,000 of such individuals have been 
        granted access to information classified at the Top Secret 
        level.
    (b) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the classification system of the Federal Government is 
        in urgent need of reform;
            (2) the number of people with access to classified 
        information is exceedingly high and must be justified or 
        reduced;
            (3) reforms are necessary to reestablish trust between the 
        Federal Government and the people of the United States; and
            (4) classification should be limited to the minimum 
        necessary to protect national security while balancing the 
        public's interest in disclosure.

SEC. 714. CLASSIFICATION AUTHORITY.

    (a) In General.--The authority to classify information originally 
may be exercised only by--
            (1) the President and, in the performance of executive 
        duties, the Vice President;
            (2) the head of an agency or an official of any agency 
        authorized by the President pursuant to a designation of such 
        authority in the Federal Register; and
            (3) an official of the Federal Government to whom authority 
        to classify information originally has been delegated pursuant 
        to subsection (c).
    (b) Scope of Authority.--An individual authorized by this section 
to classify information originally at a specified level may also 
classify the information originally at a lower level.
    (c) Delegation of Original Classification Authority.--An official 
of the Federal Government may be delegated original classification 
authority subject to the following:
            (1) Delegation of original classification authority shall 
        be limited to the minimum required to administer this section. 
        Agency heads shall be responsible for ensuring that designated 
        subordinate officials have a demonstrable and continuing need 
        to exercise this authority.
            (2) Authority to originally classify information at the 
        level designated as ``Top Secret'' may be delegated only by the 
        President, in the performance of executive duties, the Vice 
        President, or an agency head or official designated pursuant to 
        subsection (a)(2).
            (3) Authority to originally classify information at the 
        level designated as ``Secret'' or ``Confidential'' may be 
        delegated only by the President, in the performance of 
        executive duties, the Vice President, or an agency head or 
        official designated pursuant to subsection (a)(2), or the 
        senior agency official described in section 5.4(d) of Executive 
        Order 13526 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to classified 
        national security information), or successor order, provided 
        that official has been delegated ``Top Secret'' original 
        classification authority by the agency head.
            (4) Each delegation of original classification authority 
        shall be in writing and the authority shall not be redelegated 
        except as provided by paragraphs (1), (2), and (3). Each 
        delegation shall identify the official by name or position 
        title.
    (d) Training Required.--
            (1) In general.--An individual may not be delegated 
        original classification authority under this section unless the 
        individual has first received training described in paragraph 
        (2).
            (2) Training described.--Training described in this 
        paragraph is training on original classification that includes 
        instruction on the proper safeguarding of classified 
        information and of the criminal, civil, and administrative 
        sanctions that may be brought against an individual who fails 
        to protect classified information from unauthorized disclosure.
    (e) Exceptional Cases.--
            (1) In general.--When an employee, contractor, licensee, 
        certificate holder, or grantee of an agency who does not have 
        original classification authority originates information 
        believed by that employee, contractor, licensee, certificate 
        holder, or grantee to require classification, the information 
        shall be protected in a manner consistent with Executive Order 
        13526 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to classified national 
        security information), or successor order.
            (2) Transmittal.--An employee, contractor, licensee, 
        certificate holder, or grantee described in paragraph (1), who 
        originates information described in such paragraph, shall 
        promptly transmit such information to--
                    (A) the agency that has appropriate subject matter 
                interest and classification authority with respect to 
                this information; or
                    (B) if it is not clear which agency has appropriate 
                subject matter interest and classification authority 
                with respect to the information, the Director of the 
                Information Security Oversight Office.
            (3) Agency decisions.--An agency that receives information 
        pursuant to paragraph (2)(A) or (4) shall decide within 30 days 
        whether to classify this information.
            (4) Information security oversight office action.--If the 
        Director of the Information Security Oversight Office receives 
        information under paragraph (2)(B), the Director shall 
        determine the agency having appropriate subject matter interest 
        and classification authority and forward the information, with 
        appropriate recommendations, to that agency for a 
        classification determination.

SEC. 715. PROMOTING EFFICIENT DECLASSIFICATION REVIEW.

    (a) In General.--Whenever an agency is processing a request 
pursuant to section 552 of title 5, United States Code (commonly known 
as the ``Freedom of Information Act'') or the mandatory 
declassification review provisions of Executive Order 13526 (50 U.S.C. 
3161 note; relating to classified national security information), or 
successor order, and identifies responsive classified records that are 
more than 25 years of age as of December 31 of the year in which the 
request is received, the head of the agency shall review the record and 
process the record for declassification and release by the National 
Declassification Center of the National Archives and Records 
Administration.
    (b) Application.--Subsection (a) shall apply--
            (1) regardless of whether or not the record described in 
        such subsection is in the legal custody of the National 
        Archives and Records Administration; and
            (2) without regard for any other provisions of law or 
        existing agreements or practices between agencies.

SEC. 716. TRAINING TO PROMOTE SENSIBLE CLASSIFICATION.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Over-classification.--The term ``over-classification'' 
        means classification at a level that exceeds the minimum level 
        of classification that is sufficient to protect the national 
        security of the United States.
            (2) Sensible classification.--The term ``sensible 
        classification'' means classification at a level that is the 
        minimum level of classification that is sufficient to protect 
        the national security of the United States.
    (b) Training Required.--Each head of an agency with classification 
authority shall conduct training for employees of the agency with 
classification authority to discourage over-classification and to 
promote sensible classification.

SEC. 717. IMPROVEMENTS TO PUBLIC INTEREST DECLASSIFICATION BOARD.

    Section 703 of the Public Interest Declassification Act of 2000 (50 
U.S.C. 3355a) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c), by adding at the end the following:
    ``(5) A member of the Board whose term has expired may continue to 
serve until a successor is appointed and sworn in.''; and
            (2) in subsection (f)--
                    (A) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``Any employee''; 
                and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(2)(A) In addition to any employees detailed to the Board under 
paragraph (1), the Board may hire not more than 12 staff members.
    ``(B) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out 
subparagraph (A) such sums as are necessary for fiscal year 2024 and 
each fiscal year thereafter.''.

SEC. 718. IMPLEMENTATION OF TECHNOLOGY FOR CLASSIFICATION AND 
              DECLASSIFICATION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Office of Electronic 
Government (in this section referred to as the ``Administrator'') 
shall, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the Director of 
the Central Intelligence Agency, the Director of National Intelligence, 
the Public Interest Declassification Board, the Director of the 
Information Security Oversight Office, and the head of the National 
Declassification Center of the National Archives and Records 
Administration--
            (1) research a technology-based solution--
                    (A) utilizing machine learning and artificial 
                intelligence to support efficient and effective systems 
                for classification and declassification; and
                    (B) to be implemented on an interoperable and 
                federated basis across the Federal Government; and
            (2) submit to the President a recommendation regarding a 
        technology-based solution described in paragraph (1) that 
        should be adopted by the Federal Government.
    (b) Staff.--The Administrator may hire sufficient staff to carry 
out subsection (a).
    (c) Report.--Not later than 540 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to Congress a 
classified report on the technology-based solution recommended by the 
Administrator under subsection (a)(2) and the President's decision 
regarding its adoption.

SEC. 719. STUDIES AND RECOMMENDATIONS ON NECESSITY OF SECURITY 
              CLEARANCES.

    (a) Agency Studies on Necessity of Security Clearances.--
            (1) Studies required.--The head of each agency that grants 
        security clearances to personnel of such agency shall conduct a 
        study on the necessity of such clearances.
            (2) Reports required.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, each head of an 
                agency that conducts a study under paragraph (1) shall 
                submit to Congress a report on the findings of the 
                agency head with respect to such study, which the 
                agency head may classify as appropriate.
                    (B) Required elements.--Each report submitted by 
                the head of an agency under subparagraph (A) shall 
                include, for such agency, the following:
                            (i) The number of personnel eligible for 
                        access to information up to the ``Top Secret'' 
                        level.
                            (ii) The number of personnel eligible for 
                        access to information up to the ``Secret'' 
                        level.
                            (iii) Information on any reduction in the 
                        number of personnel eligible for access to 
                        classified information based on the study 
                        conducted under paragraph (1).
                            (iv) A description of how the agency head 
                        will ensure that the number of security 
                        clearances granted by such agency will be kept 
                        to the minimum required for the conduct of 
                        agency functions, commensurate with the size, 
                        needs, and mission of the agency.
            (3) Industry.--This subsection shall apply to the Secretary 
        of Defense in the Secretary's capacity as the Executive Agent 
        for the National Industrial Security Program, and the Secretary 
        shall treat contractors, licensees, and grantees as personnel 
        of the Department of Defense for purposes of the studies and 
        reports required by this subsection.
    (b) Director of National Intelligence Review of Sensitive 
Compartmented Information.--The Director of National Intelligence 
shall--
            (1) review the number of personnel eligible for access to 
        sensitive compartmented information; and
            (2) submit to Congress a report on how the Director will 
        ensure that the number of such personnel is limited to the 
        minimum required.
    (c) Agency Review of Special Access Programs.--Each head of an 
agency who is authorized to establish a special access program by 
Executive Order 13526 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to classified 
national security information), or successor order, shall--
            (1) review the number of personnel of the agency eligible 
        for access to such special access programs; and
            (2) submit to Congress a report on how the agency head will 
        ensure that the number of such personnel is limited to the 
        minimum required.
    (d) Secretary of Energy Review of Q and L Clearances.--The 
Secretary of Energy shall--
            (1) review the number of personnel of the Department of 
        Energy granted Q and L access; and
            (2) submit to Congress a report on how the Secretary will 
        ensure that the number of such personnel is limited to the 
        minimum required
    (e) Independent Reviews.--Not later than 180 days after the date on 
which a study is completed under subsection (a) or a review is 
completed under subsections (b) through (d), the Director of the 
Information Security Oversight Office of the National Archives and 
Records Administration, the Director of National Intelligence, and the 
Public Interest Declassification Board shall each review the study or 
review, as the case may be.

          TITLE VIII--SECURITY CLEARANCE AND TRUSTED WORKFORCE

SEC. 801. REVIEW OF SHARED INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICES FOR 
              PERSONNEL VETTING.

    (a) Definition of Appropriate Committees of Congress.--In this 
section, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the congressional intelligence committees;
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Subcommittee on 
        Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
            (3) the Committee on Armed Services and the Subcommittee on 
        Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives.
    (b) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a review of the extent 
to which the intelligence community can use information technology 
services shared among the intelligence community for purposes of 
personnel vetting, including with respect to human resources, 
suitability, and security.

SEC. 802. TIMELINESS STANDARD FOR RENDERING DETERMINATIONS OF TRUST FOR 
              PERSONNEL VETTING.

    (a) Timeliness Standard.--
            (1) In general.--The President shall, acting through the 
        Security Executive Agent and the Suitability and Credentialing 
        Executive Agent, establish and publish in such public venue as 
        the President considers appropriate, new timeliness performance 
        standards for processing personnel vetting trust determinations 
        in accordance with the Federal personnel vetting performance 
        management standards.
            (2) Quinquennial reviews.--Not less frequently than once 
        every 5 years, the President shall, acting through the Security 
        Executive Agent and the Suitability and Credentialing Executive 
        Agent--
                    (A) review the standards established pursuant to 
                paragraph (1); and
                    (B) pursuant to such review--
                            (i) update such standards as the President 
                        considers appropriate; and
                            (ii) publish in the Federal Register such 
                        updates as may be made pursuant to clause (i).
            (3) Conforming amendment.--Section 3001 of the Intelligence 
        Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 3341) is 
        amended by striking subsection (g).
    (b) Quarterly Reports on Implementation.--
            (1) In general.--Not less frequently than quarterly, the 
        Security Executive Agent and the Suitability and Credentialing 
        Executive Agent shall jointly make available to the public a 
        quarterly report on the compliance of Executive agencies (as 
        defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code) with the 
        standards established pursuant to subsection (a).
            (2) Disaggregation.--Each report made available pursuant to 
        paragraph (1) shall disaggregate, to the greatest extent 
        practicable, data by appropriate category of personnel risk and 
        between Government and contractor personnel.
    (c) Complementary Standards for Intelligence Community.--The 
Director of National Intelligence may, in consultation with the 
Security, Suitability, and Credentialing Performance Accountability 
Council established pursuant to Executive Order 13467 (50 U.S.C. 3161 
note; relating to reforming processes related to suitability for 
Government employment, fitness for contractor employees, and 
eligibility for access to classified national security information) 
establish for the intelligence community standards complementary to 
those established pursuant to subsection (a).

SEC. 803. ANNUAL REPORT ON PERSONNEL VETTING TRUST DETERMINATIONS.

    (a) Definition of Personnel Vetting Trust Determination.--In this 
section, the term ``personnel vetting trust determination'' means any 
determination made by an executive branch agency as to whether an 
individual can be trusted to perform job functions or to be granted 
access necessary for a position.
    (b) Annual Report.--Not later than March 30, 2024, and annually 
thereafter for 5 years, the Director of National Intelligence, acting 
as the Security Executive Agent, and the Director of the Office of 
Personnel Management, acting as the Suitability and Credentialing 
Executive Agent, in coordination with the Security, Suitability, and 
Credentialing Performance Accountability Council, shall jointly make 
available to the public a report on specific types of personnel vetting 
trust determinations made during the fiscal year preceding the fiscal 
year in which the report is made available, disaggregated, to the 
greatest extent possible, by the following:
            (1) Determinations of eligibility for national security-
        sensitive positions, separately noting--
                    (A) the number of individuals granted access to 
                national security information; and
                    (B) the number of individuals determined to be 
                eligible for but not granted access to national 
                security information.
            (2) Determinations of suitability or fitness for a public 
        trust position.
            (3) Status as a Government employee, a contractor employee, 
        or other category.
    (c) Elimination of Report Requirement.--Section 3001 of the 
Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 
3341) is amended by striking subsection (h).

SEC. 804. SURVEY TO ASSESS STRENGTHS AND WEAKNESSES OF TRUSTED 
              WORKFORCE 2.0.

    Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
and once every 2 years thereafter until 2029, the Comptroller General 
of the United States shall administer a survey to such sample of 
Federal agencies, Federal contractors, and other persons that require 
security clearances to access classified information as the Comptroller 
General considers appropriate to assess--
            (1) the strengths and weaknesses of the implementation of 
        the Trusted Workforce 2.0 initiative; and
            (2) the effectiveness of vetting Federal personnel while 
        managing risk during the onboarding of such personnel.

SEC. 805. PROHIBITION ON DENIAL OF ELIGIBILITY FOR ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED 
              INFORMATION SOLELY BECAUSE OF PAST USE OF CANNABIS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Cannabis.--The term ``cannabis'' has the meaning given 
        the term ``marihuana'' in section 102 of the Controlled 
        Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802).
            (2) Eligibility for access to classified information.--The 
        term ``eligibility for access to classified information'' has 
        the meaning given the term in the procedures established 
        pursuant to section 801(a) of the National Security Act of 1947 
        (50 U.S.C. 3161(a)).
    (b) Prohibition.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
head of an element of the intelligence community may not make a 
determination to deny eligibility for access to classified information 
to an individual based solely on the use of cannabis by the individual 
prior to the submission of the application for a security clearance by 
the individual.

                  TITLE IX--ANOMALOUS HEALTH INCIDENTS

SEC. 901. IMPROVED FUNDING FLEXIBILITY FOR PAYMENTS MADE BY THE CENTRAL 
              INTELLIGENCE AGENCY FOR QUALIFYING INJURIES TO THE BRAIN.

    Section 19A(d) of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 
U.S.C. 3519b(d)) is amended by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the 
following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Funding.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Payment under paragraph (2) in a 
                fiscal year may be made using any funds--
                            ``(i) appropriated in advance specifically 
                        for payments under such paragraph; or
                            ``(ii) reprogrammed in accordance with 
                        section 504 of the National Security Act of 
                        1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094).
                    ``(B) Budget.--For each fiscal year, the Director 
                shall include with the budget justification materials 
                submitted to Congress in support of the budget of the 
                President for that fiscal year pursuant to section 
                1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, an estimate of 
                the funds required in that fiscal year to make payments 
                under paragraph (2).''.

SEC. 902. CLARIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS TO SEEK CERTAIN BENEFITS 
              RELATING TO INJURIES TO THE BRAIN.

    (a) In General.--Section 19A(d)(5) of the Central Intelligence 
Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 3519b(d)(5)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Payments made'' and inserting the 
        following:
                    ``(A) In general.--Payments made''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) Relation to certain federal workers 
                compensation laws.--Without regard to the requirements 
                in sections (b) and (c), covered employees need not 
                first seek benefits provided under chapter 81 of title 
                5, United States Code, to be eligible solely for 
                payment authorized under paragraph (2) of this 
                subsection.''.
    (b) Regulations.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency 
shall--
            (1) revise applicable regulations to conform with the 
        amendment made by subsection (a); and
            (2) submit to the congressional intelligence committees, 
        the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations 
        of the Senate, and the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee 
        on Appropriations of the House of Representatives copies of 
        such regulations, as revised pursuant to paragraph (1).

SEC. 903. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY IMPLEMENTATION OF HAVANA ACT OF 2021 
              AUTHORITIES.

    (a) Regulations.--Except as provided in subsection (c), not later 
than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, each head of 
an element of the intelligence community that has not already done so 
shall--
            (1) issue regulations and procedures to implement the 
        authorities provided by section 19A(d) of the Central 
        Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 3519b(d)) and 
        section 901(i) of title IX of division J of the Further 
        Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020 (22 U.S.C. 2680b(i)) to 
        provide payments under such sections, to the degree that such 
        authorities are applicable to the head of the element; and
            (2) submit to the congressional intelligence, the 
        Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of 
        the Senate, and the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives committees 
        copies of such regulations.
    (b) Reporting.--Not later than 210 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, each head of an element of the intelligence 
community shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees, 
the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of the 
Senate, and the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives a report on--
            (1) the estimated number of individuals associated with 
        their element that may be eligible for payment under the 
        authorities described in subsection (a)(1);
            (2) an estimate of the obligation that the head of the 
        intelligence community element expects to incur in fiscal year 
        2025 as a result of establishing the regulations pursuant to 
        subsection (a)(1); and
            (3) any perceived barriers or concerns in implementing such 
        authorities.
    (c) Alternative Reporting.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, each head of an element of the 
intelligence community (other than the Director of the Central 
Intelligence Agency) who believes that the authorities described in 
subsection (a)(1) are not currently relevant for individuals associated 
with their element, or who are not otherwise in position to issue the 
regulations and procedures required by subsection (a)(1) shall provide 
written and detailed justification to the congressional intelligence 
committees, the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on 
Appropriations of the Senate, and the Subcommittee on Defense of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives to explain 
this position.

SEC. 904. REPORT AND BRIEFING ON CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY HANDLING 
              OF ANOMALOUS HEALTH INCIDENTS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Agency.--The term ``Agency'' means the Central 
        Intelligence Agency.
            (2) Qualifying injury.--The term ``qualifying injury'' has 
        the meaning given such term in section 19A(d)(1) of the Central 
        Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 3519b(d)(1)).
    (b) In General.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency 
shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on 
the handling of anomalous health incidents by the Agency.
    (c) Contents.--The report required by subsection (b) shall include 
the following:
            (1) HAVANA act implementation.--
                    (A) An explanation of how the Agency determines 
                whether a reported anomalous health incident resulted 
                in a qualifying injury or a qualifying injury to the 
                brain.
                    (B) The number of participants of the Expanded Care 
                Program of the Central Intelligence Agency who--
                            (i) have a certified qualifying injury or a 
                        certified qualifying injury to the brain; and
                            (ii) as of September 30, 2023, applied to 
                        the Expanded Care Program due to a reported 
                        anomalous health incident.
                    (C) A comparison of the number of anomalous health 
                incidents reported by applicants to the Expanded Care 
                Program that occurred in the United States and that 
                occurred in a foreign country.
                    (D) The specific reason each applicant was approved 
                or denied for payment under the Expanded Care Program.
                    (E) The number of applicants who were initially 
                denied payment but were later approved on appeal.
                    (F) The average length of time, from the time of 
                application, for an applicant to receive a 
                determination from the Expanded Care Program, 
                aggregated by qualifying injuries and qualifying 
                injuries to the brain.
            (2) Priority cases.--
                    (A) A detailed list of priority cases of anomalous 
                health incidents, including, for each incident, 
                locations, dates, times, and circumstances.
                    (B) For each priority case listed in accordance 
                with subparagraph (A), a detailed explanation of each 
                credible alternative explanation that the Agency 
                assigned to the incident, including--
                            (i) how the incident was discovered;
                            (ii) how the incident was assigned within 
                        the Agency; and
                            (iii) whether an individual affected by the 
                        incident is provided an opportunity to appeal 
                        the credible alternative explanation.
                    (C) For each priority case of an anomalous health 
                incident determined to be largely consistent with the 
                definition of ``anomalous health incident'' established 
                by the National Academy of Sciences and for which the 
                Agency does not have a credible alternative 
                explanation, a detailed description of such case.
            (3) Anomalous health incident sensors.--
                    (A) A list of all types of sensors that the Agency 
                has developed or deployed with respect to reports of 
                anomalous health incidents, including, for each type of 
                sensor, the deployment location, the date and the 
                duration of the employment of such type of sensor, and, 
                if applicable, the reason for removal.
                    (B) A list of entities to which the Agency has 
                provided unrestricted access to data associated with 
                anomalous health incidents.
                    (C) A list of requests for support the Agency has 
                received from elements of the Federal Government 
                regarding sensor development, testing, or deployment, 
                and a description of the support provided in each case.
                    (D) A description of all emitter signatures 
                obtained by sensors associated with anomalous health 
                incidents in Agency holdings since 2016, including--
                            (i) the identification of any of such 
                        emitters that the Agency prioritizes as a 
                        threat; and
                            (ii) an explanation of such prioritization.
    (d) Additional Submissions.--Concurrent with the submission of the 
report required by subsection (b), the Director of the Central 
Intelligence Agency shall submit to the congressional intelligence 
committees, the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on 
Appropriations of the Senate, and the Subcommittee on Defense of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives--
            (1) a template of each form required to apply for the 
        Expanded Care Program, including with respect to payments for a 
        qualifying injury or a qualifying injury to the brain;
            (2) copies of internal guidance used by the Agency to 
        adjudicate claims for the Expanded Care Program, including with 
        respect to payments for a qualifying injury to the brain;
            (3) the case file of each applicant to the Expanded Care 
        Program who applied due to a reported anomalous health 
        incident, including supporting medical documentation, with name 
        and other identifying information redacted;
            (4) copies of all informational and instructional materials 
        provided to employees of and other individuals affiliated with 
        the Agency with respect to applying for the Expanded Care 
        Program; and
            (5) copies of Agency guidance provided to employees of and 
        other individuals affiliated with the Agency with respect to 
        reporting and responding to a suspected anomalous health 
        incident, and the roles and responsibilities of each element of 
        the Agency tasked with responding to a report of an anomalous 
        health incident.
    (e) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency 
shall brief the congressional intelligence committees, the Subcommittee 
on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, and the 
Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives on the report.

                       TITLE X--ELECTION SECURITY

SEC. 1001. STRENGTHENING ELECTION CYBERSECURITY TO UPHOLD RESPECT FOR 
              ELECTIONS THROUGH INDEPENDENT TESTING ACT OF 2023.

    (a) Requiring Penetration Testing as Part of the Testing and 
Certification of Voting Systems.--Section 231 of the Help America Vote 
Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 20971) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(e) Required Penetration Testing.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this subsection, the Commission shall 
        provide for the conduct of penetration testing as part of the 
        testing, certification, decertification, and recertification of 
        voting system hardware and software by accredited laboratories 
        under this section.
            ``(2) Accreditation.--The Director of the National 
        Institute of Standards and Technology shall recommend to the 
        Commission entities the Director proposes be accredited to 
        carry out penetration testing under this subsection and certify 
        compliance with the penetration testing-related guidelines 
        required by this subsection. The Commission shall vote on the 
        accreditation of any entity recommended. The requirements for 
        such accreditation shall be a subset of the requirements for 
        accreditation of laboratories under subsection (b) and shall 
        only be based on consideration of an entity's competence to 
        conduct penetration testing under this subsection.''.
    (b) Independent Security Testing and Coordinated Cybersecurity 
Vulnerability Disclosure Program for Election Systems.--
            (1) In general.--Subtitle D of title II of the Help America 
        Vote Act of 2002 (42 U.S.C. 15401 et seq.) is amended by adding 
        at the end the following new part:

 ``PART 7--INDEPENDENT SECURITY TESTING AND COORDINATED CYBERSECURITY 
      VULNERABILITY DISCLOSURE PILOT PROGRAM FOR ELECTION SYSTEMS

``SEC. 297. INDEPENDENT SECURITY TESTING AND COORDINATED CYBERSECURITY 
              VULNERABILITY DISCLOSURE PILOT PROGRAM FOR ELECTION 
              SYSTEMS.

    ``(a) In General.--
            ``(1) Establishment.--The Commission, in consultation with 
        the Secretary, shall establish an Independent Security Testing 
        and Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure Pilot Program for 
        Election Systems (VDP-E) (in this section referred to as the 
        `program') in order to test for and disclose cybersecurity 
        vulnerabilities in election systems.
            ``(2) Duration.--The program shall be conducted for a 
        period of 5 years.
            ``(3) Requirements.--In carrying out the program, the 
        Commission, in consultation with the Secretary, shall--
                    ``(A) establish a mechanism by which an election 
                systems vendor may make their election system 
                (including voting machines and source code) available 
                to cybersecurity researchers participating in the 
                program;
                    ``(B) provide for the vetting of cybersecurity 
                researchers prior to their participation in the 
                program, including the conduct of background checks;
                    ``(C) establish terms of participation that--
                            ``(i) describe the scope of testing 
                        permitted under the program;
                            ``(ii) require researchers to--
                                    ``(I) notify the vendor, the 
                                Commission, and the Secretary of any 
                                cybersecurity vulnerability they 
                                identify with respect to an election 
                                system; and
                                    ``(II) otherwise keep such 
                                vulnerability confidential for 180 days 
                                after such notification;
                            ``(iii) require the good faith 
                        participation of all participants in the 
                        program;
                            ``(iv) require an election system vendor, 
                        within 180 days after validating notification 
                        of a critical or high vulnerability (as defined 
                        by the National Institute of Standards and 
                        Technology) in an election system of the 
                        vendor, to--
                                    ``(I) send a patch or propound some 
                                other fix or mitigation for such 
                                vulnerability to the appropriate State 
                                and local election officials, in 
                                consultation with the researcher who 
                                discovered it; and
                                    ``(II) notify the Commission and 
                                the Secretary that such patch has been 
                                sent to such officials;
                    ``(D) in the case where a patch or fix to address a 
                vulnerability disclosed under subparagraph (C)(ii)(I) 
                is intended to be applied to a system certified by the 
                Commission, provide--
                            ``(i) for the expedited review of such 
                        patch or fix within 90 days after receipt by 
                        the Commission; and
                            ``(ii) if such review is not completed by 
                        the last day of such 90 day period, that such 
                        patch or fix shall be deemed to be certified by 
                        the Commission, subject to any subsequent 
                        review of such determination by the Commission; 
                        and
                    ``(E) 180 days after the disclosure of a 
                vulnerability under subparagraph (C)(ii)(I), notify the 
                Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure 
                Security Agency of the vulnerability for inclusion in 
                the database of Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures.
            ``(4) Voluntary participation; safe harbor.--
                    ``(A) Voluntary participation.--Participation in 
                the program shall be voluntary for election systems 
                vendors and researchers.
                    ``(B) Safe harbor.--When conducting research under 
                this program, such research and subsequent publication 
                shall be considered to be:
                            ``(i) Authorized in accordance with section 
                        1030 of title 18, United States Code (commonly 
                        known as the `Computer Fraud and Abuse Act'), 
                        (and similar state laws), and the election 
                        system vendor will not initiate or support 
                        legal action against the researcher for 
                        accidental, good faith violations of the 
                        program.
                            ``(ii) Exempt from the anti-circumvention 
                        rule of section 1201 of title 17, United States 
                        Code (commonly known as the `Digital Millennium 
                        Copyright Act'), and the election system vendor 
                        will not bring a claim against a researcher for 
                        circumvention of technology controls.
                    ``(C) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this 
                paragraph may be construed to limit or otherwise affect 
                any exception to the general prohibition against the 
                circumvention of technological measures under 
                subparagraph (A) of section 1201(a)(1) of title 17, 
                United States Code, including with respect to any use 
                that is excepted from that general prohibition by the 
                Librarian of Congress under subparagraphs (B) through 
                (D) of such section 1201(a)(1).
            ``(5) Exempt from disclosure.--Cybersecurity 
        vulnerabilities discovered under the program shall be exempt 
        from section 552 of title 5, United States Code (commonly 
        referred to as the Freedom of Information Act).
            ``(6) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    ``(A) Cybersecurity vulnerability.--The term 
                `cybersecurity vulnerability' means, with respect to an 
                election system, any security vulnerability that 
                affects the election system.
                    ``(B) Election infrastructure.--The term `election 
                infrastructure' means--
                            ``(i) storage facilities, polling places, 
                        and centralized vote tabulation locations used 
                        to support the administration of elections for 
                        public office; and
                            ``(ii) related information and 
                        communications technology, including--
                                    ``(I) voter registration databases;
                                    ``(II) election management systems;
                                    ``(III) voting machines;
                                    ``(IV) electronic mail and other 
                                communications systems (including 
                                electronic mail and other systems of 
                                vendors who have entered into contracts 
                                with election agencies to support the 
                                administration of elections, manage the 
                                election process, and report and 
                                display election results); and
                                    ``(V) other systems used to manage 
                                the election process and to report and 
                                display election results on behalf of 
                                an election agency.
                    ``(C) Election system.--The term `election system' 
                means any information system that is part of an 
                election infrastructure, including any related 
                information and communications technology described in 
                subparagraph (B)(ii).
                    ``(D) Election system vendor.--The term `election 
                system vendor' means any person providing, supporting, 
                or maintaining an election system on behalf of a State 
                or local election official.
                    ``(E) Information system.--The term `information 
                system' has the meaning given the term in section 3502 
                of title 44, United States Code.
                    ``(F) Secretary.--The term `Secretary' means the 
                Secretary of Homeland Security.
                    ``(G) Security vulnerability.--The term `security 
                vulnerability' has the meaning given the term in 
                section 102 of the Cybersecurity Information Sharing 
                Act of 2015 (6 U.S.C. 1501).''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents of such Act 
        is amended by adding at the end of the items relating to 
        subtitle D of title II the following:

 ``PART 7--Independent Security Testing and Coordinated Cybersecurity 
         Vulnerability Disclosure Program for Election Systems

``Sec. 297. Independent security testing and coordinated cybersecurity 
                            vulnerability disclosure program for 
                            election systems.''.

                        TITLE XI--OTHER MATTERS

SEC. 1101. MODIFICATION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENT FOR ALL-DOMAIN ANOMALY 
              RESOLUTION OFFICE.

    Section 1683(k)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2022 (50 U.S.C. 3373(k)(1)), as amended by section 6802(a) 
of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 
117-263), is amended--
            (1) in the heading, by striking ``Director of national 
        intelligence and secretary of defense'' and inserting ``All-
        domain anomaly resolution office''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``Director of National 
        Intelligence and the Secretary of Defense shall jointly'' and 
        inserting ``Director of the Office shall''.

SEC. 1102. FUNDING LIMITATIONS RELATING TO UNIDENTIFIED ANOMALOUS 
              PHENOMENA.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Select Committee on Intelligence, the 
                Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on 
                Appropriations of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, 
                the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on 
                Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
            (2) Congressional leadership.--The term ``congressional 
        leadership'' means--
                    (A) the majority leader of the Senate;
                    (B) the minority leader of the Senate;
                    (C) the Speaker of the House of Representatives; 
                and
                    (D) the minority leader of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (3) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        the All-domain Anomaly Resolution Office.
            (4) Unidentified anomalous phenomena.--The term 
        ``unidentified anomalous phenomena'' has the meaning given such 
        term in section 1683(n) of the National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (50 U.S.C. 3373(n)), as amended by 
        section 6802(a) of the Intelligence Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263).
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that, due to 
the increasing potential for technology surprise from foreign 
adversaries and to ensure sufficient integration across the United 
States industrial base and avoid technology and security stovepipes--
            (1) the United States industrial base must retain its 
        global lead in critical advanced technologies; and
            (2) the Federal Government must expand awareness about any 
        historical exotic technology antecedents previously provided by 
        the Federal Government for research and development purposes.
    (c) Limitations.--No amount authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act may be obligated or expended, directly or indirectly, in part or in 
whole, for, on, in relation to, or in support of activities involving 
unidentified anomalous phenomena protected under any form of special 
access or restricted access limitations that have not been formally, 
officially, explicitly, and specifically described, explained, and 
justified to the appropriate committees of Congress, congressional 
leadership, and the Director, including for any activities relating to 
the following:
            (1) Recruiting, employing, training, equipping, and 
        operations of, and providing security for, government or 
        contractor personnel with a primary, secondary, or contingency 
        mission of capturing, recovering, and securing unidentified 
        anomalous phenomena craft or pieces and components of such 
        craft.
            (2) Analyzing such craft or pieces or components thereof, 
        including for the purpose of determining properties, material 
        composition, method of manufacture, origin, characteristics, 
        usage and application, performance, operational modalities, or 
        reverse engineering of such craft or component technology.
            (3) Managing and providing security for protecting 
        activities and information relating to unidentified anomalous 
        phenomena from disclosure or compromise.
            (4) Actions relating to reverse engineering or replicating 
        unidentified anomalous phenomena technology or performance 
        based on analysis of materials or sensor and observational 
        information associated with unidentified anomalous phenomena.
            (5) The development of propulsion technology, or aerospace 
        craft that uses propulsion technology, systems, or subsystems, 
        that is based on or derived from or inspired by inspection, 
        analysis, or reverse engineering of recovered unidentified 
        anomalous phenomena craft or materials.
            (6) Any aerospace craft that uses propulsion technology 
        other than chemical propellants, solar power, or electric ion 
        thrust.
    (d) Notification and Reporting.--Any person currently or formerly 
under contract with the Federal Government that has in their possession 
material or information provided by or derived from the Federal 
Government relating to unidentified anomalous phenomena that formerly 
or currently is protected by any form of special access or restricted 
access shall--
            (1) not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, notify the Director of such possession; and
            (2) not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, make available to the Director for assessment, 
        analysis, and inspection--
                    (A) all such material and information; and
                    (B) a comprehensive list of all non-earth origin or 
                exotic unidentified anomalous phenomena material.
    (e) Liability.--No criminal or civil action may lie or be 
maintained in any Federal or State court against any person for 
receiving material or information described in subsection (d) if that 
person complies with the notification and reporting provisions 
described in such subsection.
    (f) Limitation Regarding Independent Research and Development.--
            (1) In general.--Consistent with Department of Defense 
        Instruction Number 3204.01 (dated August 20, 2014, 
        incorporating change 2, dated July 9, 2020; relating to 
        Department policy for oversight of independent research and 
        development), independent research and development funding 
        relating to material or information described in subsection (c) 
        shall not be allowable as indirect expenses for purposes of 
        contracts covered by such instruction, unless such material and 
        information is made available to the Director in accordance 
        with subsection (d).
            (2) Effective date and applicability.--Paragraph (1) shall 
        take effect on the date that is 60 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act and shall apply with respect to funding 
        from amounts appropriated before, on, or after such date.
    (g) Notice to Congress.--Not later than 30 days after the date on 
which the Director has received a notification under paragraph (1) of 
subsection (d) or information or material under paragraph (2) of such 
subsection, the Director shall provide written notification of such 
receipt to the appropriate committees of Congress, the Committee on 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate, the Committee 
on Oversight and Accountability of the House of Representatives, and 
congressional leadership.

            Passed the Senate July 27, 2023.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
118th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 2226

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

     To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2024 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense for military construction, and 
   for defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
   military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
                               purposes.